ADVENTURE: THE
CURIOUS WORLD WITHIN

T

"The Curious World Within” is intended for 2 to 4 2nd-level characters.

he adventurers have decided to help out a young postal knight and find themselves shrunk to the size of a mouse
when they infiltrate a witch’s workshop in hopes of procuring a letter. As they navigate the strange landscape,
they’ll have to fend off bora bugs, handle pixie tricksters, talk to a giant cat, and perhaps even fight a giant Venus
fly rat that calls the witch’s bizarre workshop home.

342

Adventure Begins!
As they wander through Okiri Village, the party hears the
sound of weeping. When they investigate, they find Lomi,
a 13 year old boy, sitting on a stone across from a small,
wooden house with his head in his hands. Next to him is
a sad-looking pack mule loaded with several sacks, each
marked with the insignia of the Courier Brigade.

Lomi’s Dilemma
Lomi is the younger brother of Ashi, a knight of the Courier
Brigade. All his young life, he’s wanted to be a postal
knight and impress his older sister. When one of the postal
knights fell ill, Ashi entrusted her little brother to deliver
their packages and letters as a first test of his commitment
to the organization—it was Lomi’s big chance!
Unfortunately for Lomi, he has delivered the letter to the
wrong residence, and now he can’t get inside to retrieve the
goods. Lomi laments that if he returns and admits that he’s
delivered the letter to the wrong address, his dreams of
being a postal knight are sure to be over.
If asked, Lomi says that all he knows about this place is
that it is the workshop of Miss Lindley, but the letter was
intended for Mrs. Linfrey—an honest mistake, that’s now
led to a giant dilemma.
There’s a chance (DC 14 Intelligence check) that one of
the adventurers might have heard of Miss Lindley—the
local witch of the small village and the resident fixer and
mender of goods. You can read more on Miss Lindley in the
Locations Chapter under “Okiri Village—NPCs” section.
Any witch or warlock in the party will have advantage on
the roll.

Lomi’s Offer
Although Lomi has little to offer as a young boy away from
his home, he’s absolutely desperate and at this moment is
willing to offer more than what he has. Lomi can't give the
adventures much besides a few sea petals and a couple of
non-magical First Age trinkets. He will however offer his
services as an assistant for a short time, and if he really
needs to, the gold flowers he would earn for delivering
the letter.

Approaching Miss Lindley’s
Workshop
Miss Lindley’s workshop is a small and humble wooden
house in Okiri Village. There is a little cobble path that
leads to the front door, which is painted a bright green. A
sign that hangs above the door reads “closed” written in
faded cursive. On either side of the front entrance are Boom
Beri bushes, which have been picked clean of fruit. The
windows all across the house have been frosted over, and
numerous birds have begun to nest on the tiled roof.

Some facts about the workshop:
◊ Although it looks seemingly mundane, the workshop is
magical. Beside the fact that it is invulnerable, it has a
variety of spells and enchantments that Miss Lindley has
placed on it over the years.
◊ Besides the doors and windows there are no other
entrances into the house. The house has no chimney or
other small entrances.
◊ A powerful enchantment keeps the home's entrances
fully locked. This enchantment only lifts when Miss
Lindley is on the premises. This is true for all windows
and doors besides the padlocked double door to the cellar,
which is found in the back of the house. Many years ago
Miss Lindley had heaps of potion ingredients delivered
to her home regularly, letting them in through the cellar
doors when she wasn’t around. These deliveries stopped
some time ago, which is why the cellar doors now see
little use and are covered in ivy.

Entering the Workshop
There are three main ways to enter the workshop:
1. Through the ivy-covered double door that leads into
the cellar.
2. Through one of the windows.
3. Through the front door.
Although any of these options are available to the
adventurers, the padlocked double door to the cellar is the
easiest route inside. It is non-magical and takes a successful
DC 13 Dexterity check to pick the lock. It can also be broken
off with a successful attack vs. AC 13.
The windows and front door are magically locked and
require some method of dispelling magic to briefly enter. It
is difficult at their level, but it is not impossible, so be
prepared for clever adventurers to skip past the cellar,
staircase, and Emerson the cat, as they would jump straight
to the workshop's Main Floor.

The Shrink
As soon as all the party members enter the house, they are
shrunk down to Tiny size via a powerful magic trap left by
Miss Lindley while she’s away. When that happens, all the
open doors and windows shut themselves, and the house
magically re-locks itself.
If party members stay outside on guard, then they will
remain their normal size unless they decide to enter, at
which time, they will become Tiny sized.
The stat blocks in this adventure are all designed to be
relative to the character’s Tiny size.

343

1 square = 5 feet

Entering the Cellar
If the party enters from the double door outside, they see a
flight of wooden stairs going down. As they begin to walk
down, read the following:

This shadowy cellar smells of damp earth and
some pungent, unrecognizable odor—perhaps
from the centuries of bubbling concoctions that
now stain the earthen floor.
Magic flames flicker within soot-caked lanterns
that hang on the walls, each casting an eerie
glow upon old wooden crates and rows of sagging
shelves that hold all manner of dust-covered
bottles and curios—some of which are covered
in sackcloth. As the last of you steps off the
staircase, the ground illuminates in sporadic
arcane glyphs that cover the cellar floor. In an
instant your perspective warps, your eyes blur
before focusing once more on the world around
you. As you look about you quickly conclude that
you’ve either shrunk down to the size of a mouse
or this house is a lot more spacious inside than
you initially anticipated.

344

Moments after the adventurers shrink down to Tiny, the
doors magically shut and lock behind them, dust falling
from the ceiling above as they do.

Inside the Cellar
The cellar serves as Miss Lindley’s catch all room. It stores
old projects, spare supplies, and potion ingredients she
rarely uses.
A search of the crates and shelves reveals:
◊ Paw prints and claw marks from what appears to be a cat,
which as a Tiny creature seem massive.
◊ Spoiled and unfinished elixirs and potions.
◊ An uncommon ingredient from a region other than the
Gift of Shuritashi.
◊ An old, broken First Age trinket.
If the adventurers are not overly cautious and make a
ruckus, their activity will alert Emerson, the Witch’s Cat
(see Emerson the Cat later on this page). Once alerted,
Emerson will (depending on how hungry he is) either
skulk over to investigate or wait lazily atop his cushion
while idly licking a paw.

1 square = 5 feet

The Staircase

Emerson, the Witch’s Cat

To leave the cellar, the adventurers must travel up the staircase opposite to where they came in from, read the following:

Emerson is an imperious cat who boasts a portly paunch,
crooked whiskers, and a coat of thick fur that sticks out
at all angles which makes him always look as if he’s just
woken up. Emerson has the run of the workshop, but
prefers the hallway and basement where he can be away
from the pesky pixies and stalk any vermin that try to
invade his domain.

What would ordinarily be a normal staircase
is now a series of towering steps, each one about
15 feet tall that lead up to a landing piled with
books and boxes.

This flight of rickety wooden stairs connects the cellar
and the main floor of the workshop. At the top of the stairs
is the hallway and Emerson’s cushion.

BUG ATTACK!
If you choose, while the adventurers strenuously climb
the stairs they are ambushed by 1d4+1 bora bugs (see
“Monsters” below for stat block) that crawl from cracks in
the walls.

Emerson generally can be found sleeping at the top of the
stairs, which connect the cellar to the hallway that leads to
the workshop. Like a dragon guarding its lair, Emerson sits
atop a comfortable cushion embroidered with his name.
Emerson uses the stats of a Lion* with an intelligence of 11.

Emerson and the Pixies
Emerson has a strained relationship with the pixies that
live on the main floor, as each tries to be the favorite of
Miss Lindley. Miss Lindley heaps oodles of attention to both
the pixies and Emerson, but once she leaves, the feuding
between the pixies and Emerson begins.
In the most recent episode of the feud, the pixies have
taken Emerson’s treats and hid them atop the bookcase in
the main workshop—a place that Emerson can’t get to.

345

What Emerson Knows
If Emerson is befriended, he barters knowledge. He knows
which potion on the work table upstairs will restore the
adventurer’s size, and he may even know what some of the
other items in the workshop do.
If Emerson trusts the party, he will give his information
up front so that once the party is restored to normal size,
they can get him his treats. If he doesn’t trust the party,
Emerson holds back his knowledge of the potion, only
telling the party once his treats are safely in his paws.

Workshop Main Floor
This is the main area where Miss Lindley fixes all kinds of
farm tools and some First Age artifacts like bicycles and
sunglasses. Although there are no such items in here now,
there are an array of tools hanging from the walls which
are used by Miss Lindley in her craft.
There are three areas on the workshop’s main floor:
4. The Hallway
5. The Bookcase
6. The Witch’s Worktable

Once they become aware of the adventurers, the pixies
are overjoyed and immediately begin to invent games to
play with them, casting spells (like Confusion*) at the
party as they try to navigate the giant workshop.
Tina and Meena might take bets on who Emerson will eat
or who will get to the table top first. All the while their
buzzing wings and invisible laughter can be heard from all
corners of the workshop, adding another level of irritation
for the party.
With a word, the pixies can magically close all the shutters
and douse the candles, plunging the workshop into darkness.

The Hallway
The narrow hallway is piled with old books, papers, jars,
and other various clutter. To a tiny creature, traveling along
here would be a perilous affair, like crossing through a
canyon with unstable cliffs.
If the party irks the pixies and gets on their bad sides,
they are not above causing a cascade of heavy books to fall
on them for the fun of it.
Emerson may also knock a stack of books over by
accident (especially if he’s startled) causing an avalanche
that could damage a tiny party.

There is also a small end table, on top is a cage that
contains a venus fly rat (see “Monsters” below).

Tabitha Turnip
Miss Lindley is helped by a turnip spirit called Tabitha.
Tabitha is chronically grumpy and dour and only reveals
herself to clean up spills, put out fires, or deal with any such
forms of chaos that could cause damage or destruction to the
workshop. Tabitha does her tasks in a slow and deliberate
manner, all the while paying no mind to the world around
her. She responds (if at all) with eye rolls, sighs, and side
long glances of mild displeasure. Even the pixies fail to get
under her thick skin.
Tabitha is the only one who knows beyond all
doubt, every magic item in the workshop.
Getting her to help identify every one is a
task worthy of the greatest of heroes.

Pesky Pixies
There are two giant pixies
(see giant pixie stat block
in “Monsters” section below)
here named Teena and Meena,
and they are essentially tricksy
agents of mischief and mayhem
who may taunt and tease the adventurers if
it pleases them or lead the party astray and
cause doubt. You can also have the pixies
be less mischievous and actually help the party to
identify the scores of magic trinkets here (although
they make stuff up half the time).

346

AVALANCHE!
If an avalanche of books, crates, jars, or papers happens,
any creature in the affected area falls prone, and they must
make a DC 15 Strength saving throw, taking 1d10 bludgeoning damage and retraining the character on a failed save.
If you chose to not have the bora bugs attack on the
stairway, they could also attack after an avalanche in
the hallway.

The Bookcase
This is a tall bookcase that is filled with papers, notebooks,
and dusty tomes that Miss Lindley has amassed
over the years. Most of the books are heady manuscripts about the art of witchcraft.
Also on the bookcase is:
◊ 1 cassette with the spell Vegetable Blade stored
inside it (as if a scroll).
◊ The potion recipe for Elder Elixir. (Ingredients
needed: Spindle Leg Spider Webs, Origami Crane,
and Brush Reed.)
◊ The letter addressed to Mrs. Linfrey that Lomi has
misplaced. The pixies have put it here.
◊ At the top of the bookcase is a sachet embroidered
with the name “Emerson” on it. Inside are a cluster
of pungent smelling cat treats.

1 square = 2 inches

Witch’s Work Table

The Venus Fly Rat

In the center of the room is a large work table that is
covered with the tools of Miss Lindley’s arcane trade. It is
here that the adventures will find the elixir that will return
them to normal. Though to find it amongst the collection
of potions is no easy task. By trial and error, or through
the help of the Pixies or Emerson, the correct bottle can be
identified. However the real danger of the workshop is lurking just around the corner.

Hiding amongst the mess is the recently freed Venus Fly
Rat (see giant venus fly rat stat block in “Monsters” section
below), a creature originally intended to be used as an ingredient that now serves as a dangerous threat for the adventurers as they search for the potion on top of the workshop table.

Getting on the Table
To get on to the table where the elixer is, the party will
have to climb up the (relative to them) 60-foot tall wooden
table legs and navigate the overhang to get onto the surface
of the table top. Any player character with a climbing speed
can make it to the top without issue, all other characters
must succeed a DC 14 Strength Athletics check.
Getting on to the table should be fraught with difficulty,
but to make it even harder you can have the pixies cause all
kinds of mayhem during the climb. Going as far as a brief
and playful combat.

Player characters with a Passive Perception of 14 or higher
will notice the venus fly rat before it notices them. Otherwise the fly rat attacks the moment an unsuspecting
adventurer gets close to the center of the table.

Bubbling Cauldron
A small iron cauldron bubbles over a low heat from a First
Age propane burner. Inside the cauldron is an arcane
mixture of herbs, liquids, and magic. It smells aromatic and
changes with every inhalation so that exactly what herb or
spice was used can never quite be grasped.
When approached by a Tiny creature, the cauldron sits
atop a large, metal platform from the center of which a
circle of blue flames hiss and lick the underside of the
cauldron making it hot to the touch. The rim of the
cauldron is 15-feet (relative) off the table top.

347

If an adventurer drinks the brew or finds themselves
inside of the liquid, they must roll a d6.
◊ On a 1: Everything is Funny. For the next hour, the
character can’t help cracking up. They have disadvantage
on any roll unless they can succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence check to keep from laughing like a hyena.
◊ On a 2-4: Harness the Wind. The character is
surrounded by billowing gusts of wind that they can
use like a feather fall spell to cushion a fall. The potion’s
effects last for 5 minutes.
◊ On a 5-6: Touch of Nature. The character becomes
infused with what some might say is the spirit of
Obojima, allowing them to cast the spell Pillar of Force
once before the effects of the potion fade. The spell casting modifier for pillar of force is Intelligence, Wisdom, or
Charisma (whichever is higher)

List of Potions
Besides the potion that will return the adventures to their
normal size, the following potions can be found on Miss
Lindley’s table.

COMMON COMBAT POTIONS
◊ Candlecap
◊ Heroism

COMMON UTILITY POTIONS
◊ Flip and Skip
◊ Cat’s Eye

COMMON WHIMSICAL POTIONS
◊ Bubble Message
◊ Merriment
◊ Melodious Bird Calls
◊ Ladybug Kinship
◊ Beard Brew

348

Escape!
If all goes well, the adventurers return to normal after
drinking the correct potion, they retrieve Mrs. Linfrey’s
letter, and escape the workshop without a hitch. Lomi is
overjoyed and thanks the party profusely.
If you wish to continue the adventure and spin it into
your next story plot, then Lomi could mention that Mrs.
Linfrey’s letter still needs to be delivered and ask if the
party would deliver it for him as he has lost his confidence.
You can also have Lomi accompany the party as an NPC
until the letter is delivered. In either case, this can set up
your next adventure as Mrs. Linfrey can live in another city
and take the party on a new adventure.

Mrs. Linfrey’s Letter
If the party chooses to open the letter, Lomi will be horrified and do his best to dissuade them from doing such a
dishonorable act. He will report them to the Courier Brigade
which will have consequences in later adventures.
The letter could have several options of what it contains.
◊ Could be a letter that hooks into your next adventure.
◊ It could be a confession (of love or a misdeed) that leads
to a new tale.
◊ Could be an invitation to a secret witch’s costume ball.

Monsters

Giant Pixie

The following are the creatures that are found in this
adventure. The stat blocks have been adjusted relative to
the party being Tiny creatures.

Giant Bora Bug
Mostly found in dense forests, Bora Bugs are natural engineers, using their sharp horns and spiked wing casings to
carve out intricate paths on the earth. They work in large
colonies, scouring smooth, winding trails. These paths
often lead to hidden clearings, ancient ruins, or secret
groves where forest spirits dwell. But bora bugs can also
carve a path through houses and stone walls which is why
many Obojimans see them as pests.

The pixies that inhabit the workshop are sweet as pie when
Miss Lindley is around, but when she leaves for town, they
get up to all kinds of mischief—especially with Emerson,
who they love (and love to tease).

Giant Pixie
Large Spirit, Neutral Good

Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 22 (4d10)
Speed 30 ft., flying 30 ft.
STR

Giant Bora Bug
Medium Beast, Unaligned

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

10 (+0) 18 (+4) 10 (+0) 14 (+2)

15 (+2)

16 (+3)

Skills Perception +4, Stealth +8
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages Sylvan, Common

Armor Class 12 (natural armor)
Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., Climbing 20 ft., Flying 30 ft.

Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

12 (+1)

14 (+2)

13 (+1)

4 (-3)

12 (+1)

6 (-2)

Skills Perception +3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13
Languages ­­—
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

DEX

Proficiency Bonus +2

Bioluminescent Glow. The Giant Bora Bug emits a
soft light from its spiked wing casing, shedding dim
light in a 10-foot radius around it.

Actions
Horn Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5
ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage.
Spike Flurry (Recharge 5–6). The Giant Bora Bug
releases a flurry of spikes. Each creature within 10 feet
of the Giant Bora Bug must make a DC 12 Dexterity
saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) piercing damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Proficiency Bonus +2

Magic Resistance. The Pixie has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Innate Spellcasting. The Pixie’s innate spellcasting
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13, +5 to hit with
spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells,
requiring no material components:
◊ At will: Druidcraft*, Jolt, Root Grab, Transparency
◊ 1/day each: Confusion*, Control Animal, Detect
Thoughts*, Entangle*, Obscure Object, Pacify
Person, Sleep*, Whelm Weapon

Actions
Gift of Flight. The Pixie magically grants a creature it
can see a Flying speed of 30 feet. The creature keeps its
Flying speed, as long as the Pixie is holding its breath.
The Pixie can hold its breath for a number of minutes
equal to 1 + its Constitution modifier (minimum of 30
seconds). The Pixie can only grant this effect to one
creature at a time, and when the effect ends, it must
wait 1 minute before using it again.

349

Giant Venus Fly Rat
The Venus Fly Rat is a bizarre blend of rodent and carnivorous plant that is usually found in woodlands and marshes.

Giant Venus Fly Rat
Large Beast, Unaligned

Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 34 (4d10 + 12)
Speed 30 ft., Climbing 20 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

15 (+2)

15 (+2)

12 (+1)

12 (+1)

14 (+2)

7 (-2)

Skills Stealth +5
Damage Resistances Poison; Bludgeoning, Piercing,
and Slashing from Nonmagical Attacks
Condition Immunities Blinded, Charmed, Frightened
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.,
Passive Perception 11
Languages ­—
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)

350

Proficiency Bonus +2

Actions
Snap Jaw. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage. If the target
is a creature, it is also Grappled (escape DC 12) as the
Venus Fly Rat clamps down with its powerful jaws.
While Grappled in this way, the target takes 4 (1d4 + 2)
piercing damage at the start of each of its turns.
Tail Strike. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 10 ft.,
one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Pollen Burst (Recharge 5–6). The Venus Fly Rat
releases a burst of pollen in a 15-foot cone. Each creature in that area must succeed on a DC 11 Wisdom
saving throw or be affected by the Confusion* spell for
1 minute. An affected creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect
on itself on a success.

ADVENTURE:
BELOW THE SHALLOWS

T

“Below The Shallows” is intended for 2 to 4 4th-level characters.

he adventurers are called to help a young boy recover his grandfather’s kite-plane, which was hijacked by fish folk
and crashed into the Shallows. The adventurers must now dive to the ocean floor, explore a mysterious sunken
town, find the kite-plane, and then bargain (or fight) with a host of fish folk pirates, before returning to the young
boy before his grandfather finds out.

Adventure Prologue
This adventure's inciting incident doesn't actually occur until
later in this chapter. Still, to make for a more impactful story
we recommend having the adventurers meet some of the
supporting characters before they’re asked to help them.
To do this, the prologue should take place on a dirt road
leading to Sky Kite Valley. Perhaps the adventurers are
going to the village to attend one of the grand kite festivals,
to see the mass migration of floating jellyfish, or perhaps
even deliver the letter given to them at the end of “The
Curious World Within” adventure. Whatever the reason, it is
on this dirt road where the story begins.

Attack of the Harpies
As the adventurers are traveling, a band of harpies are
tracking them, waiting for the right time to strike. The
number of harpies should be enough to make the party
think twice about fighting (2 to 3 harpies per player). As the
harpies swoop down they land on the road in front of them
and then try to intimidate the adventurers to give up their
loot without a fight.

351

Aerial Assistance
Whether a fight breaks out or the adventurers are considering handing over their valuables, a noise comes from
overhead as a flying machine—a kite-plane—comes to the
party’s aid. The kite-plane is piloted by a young boy, Tokko
(human, male, commoner*), and his grandfather known as
Gramps (human, male, commoner*).
The combat goes as follows:
◊ Gramps hurls down Bottled Bombs (common combat
potion) as Tokko skillfully navigates the kite-plane.
◊ For non-lethal combat, you can have Gramps using bottles
filled with scented oil or some other substance that the
harpies loathe and causes them to fly away spitting curses
and shaking their feathers.
If this combat becomes lethal, the harpies will flee if two
or more of their comrades perish.

No matter how Tokko and Gramps interact with
the harpies, their arrival should feel like an
assistance, not a rescue. Although a quirky kid and
old man coming to save the day is fun in books
and films, most players still want to feel like the
heroes of their own story. So be cautious in this
interaction not to make the players feel less than.

Victory!
After the harpies are driven off, the kite-plane circles above
the adventurers as Tokko and Gramps wave down shouting
and cheering, eventually taking off in the direction of Sky
Kite Valley before an unfortunate and audible clacking can
be heard. Read the following text:

The delighted laughter and shouts of the
flying duo can be heard over their kite-planes
rhythmic hum as they circle above. The young
pilot tilts the aircraft's wings at a dramatic
angle, to better see you below. With an
exaggerated wave and brimming smile, he bids
you all farewell— straightening the plane once
more before taking off towards Sky Kite Valley.
It's at that moment that a resounding clank and
pop can be heard from the front of the plane.
This is shortly followed by a sudden plume of
smoke which begins to billow from the front of
the craft as they slowly begin to lose altitude.
Moments later, the once excited duo meets the
earth as their kite-plane sputters to a sad and
underwhelming halt.

352

After crashing their kite-plane Tokko and Gramps laugh it
off and quickly begin to prepare the craft to be dragged
back to the city. After officially meeting everyone, Gramps
asks the adventurers for some assistance getting the
kite-plane back to the city, with a promise of dinner for
their troubles.

Dinner Party
The dinner with Gramps, Tokko, and their family can be
whatever you envision. You can have Tokko’s family be a
large one with all kinds of quirky relatives or it could be
just Tokko and his grandfather. Either way, the goal of the
dinner party is to get the players attached to Tokko and
Gramps, as that will be what draws them into helping Tokko
when the kite-plane is stolen and crashed into the Shallows.
Possible dinner party topics of conversation include:
◊ The family is divided in their opinions about Rock Raley
and his efforts to fly to the Sky King (read “Sky Kite
Valley” in the Locations chapter). They would love to
know what the adventurers thoughts on Rock Raley are.
◊ The kite-plane is an innovative new design prototype that
Gramps and Tokko have built together. Gramps believes
the design might finally get Tokko on Rock Raley’s team
of aeronauts—a dream of Tokko’s. Gramps believes that
Tokko will be the one to solve the aerodynamics needed
to get Rock Raley’s team to the Sky King.
◊ One of the player characters could be challenged by
Tokko or a relative to cook a dish for the dinner party as a
friendly competition to see whose dish is the tastiest.

After the Party
After the dinner party, everyone's free to go about their
business and there’s some breathing room before the
adventure continues.
The adventurers can explore Sky Kite Valley and maybe
catch a jellyfish sighting, frequent one of the taverns, or go
on a mini quest. Meanwhile Tokko works on the kite-plane
with help from Gramps in hopes of winning Rock Raley’s
Top Kite Competition.

Crash of the Kite-Plane
When you’re ready to begin the second part of the adventure,
read the following:

It’s a bright and sunny day in the town of
Sky Kite when suddenly you see what looks like
Tokko's plane coming dangerously low across
the village, clipping one of the tall buildings as
it erratically swoops down the hillside toward
the ocean.
Tokko can be seen running down the hill,
chasing after the plane with his notes and
schematics flying everywhere as he begins to
wave his arms frantically and shout.
You can see what looks like a giant seahorse
spirit in the cockpit of the kite-plane. As the
plane goes overhead, the seahorse yells, “Sorry!
I didn’t want to do this!”

Even if the adventurers shoot or cast spells at the
kite-plane or its seahorse pilot, they can’t stop it from
careening out over the Shallows. Once it is clear that
nothing can be done, read the following:
Tokko finally arrives, gasping for air.
Villagers cluster around as everyone helplessly
watches the kite-plane get smaller and smaller
over the waves. Then, everyone lets out a gasp
and Tokko puts his hands to his head as the
kite-plane suddenly tilts and crash-lands into
the ocean with a splash.

Payment
If the party asks Tokko for money to recover the kite-plane,
he agrees, stating he has something very valuable he can
give them as a reward. The truth of the matter is, Tokko,
when put on the spot, panicked and promised something he
doesn’t have. So, despite his better judgment he steals a gold
statue of a sun panther from the Sun Panther temple near
Sky Kite. While the gold statue is worth far more than the
party is asking to recover the kite-plane, it is also an item
sacred to the Sun Panther druids—an order of shapeshifters near Sky Kite Valley. They will eventually track down
Tokko and then find whoever is holding their sacred item—
perhaps delivering a stern moral lesson in the process.

made their headquarters in a sunken First Age town and
are led by Bloodfin the Foul, a cunning fish folk captain
who sees the kite-plane as her way to get back into the
Lionfish King’s good graces as an offering of tribute.
All the while, Bloodfin is being swayed into deeper waters
of evil by a sea ha,g known as Slurpgill, who is urging her
protege to join forces with Venomous Rex. Slurpgill wishes
Bloodfin to fully embrace evil so she can turn Bloodfin into a
sea hag and build her coven. Slurpgill uses Bloodfin’s painful
past to manipulate her into leaving the Lionfish King.
Morris, the giant seahorse spirit that stole the kite-plane,
was intimidated into doing so by Bloodfin.

Preparing for the Mission
Tokko knows where the kite-plane went down, near a reef
at the far edge of the Shallows, a place where sailors say
that there’s a sunken town. No one goes there as it is notorious for snagging fishing lines and rumored to be a hideout
for fish folk pirates. Some even say it is haunted.
To get there, the party will need a boat, preferably a barge
large enough to recover the kite-plane. There are many
potential ways for the party to accomplish its mission.
As they are formulating their plan, keep the following
in mind:
◊ Dock workers and ship pilots will warn them of the
dangers of the Shallows—whirlpools, sea monsters,
hammer gulls, and fish folk pirates. Getting out to the
reef should feel dangerous.
◊ The party could also choose to hire a sea-glider out there
or a hot air balloon. To accomplish this, you could make
up a place like Old Jimbo’s Seaplane Shop or Belinda’s
Balloonery which could spawn a fun side quest or earn a
valuable (and possibly quirky) ally for future adventures
in Obojima. How they would then use those methods to
get the kite-plane back is up to their ingenuity.
◊ If they are not already familiar with the Mariners’ Guild,
the party should be made aware of them for access to
information and equipment (see “Holly and the Mariners’ Guild” below).

Whatever means the party chooses to get out
to the reef and the sunken town can be fraught
with peril. Monster attacks, natural dangers, or
a comically malfunctioning boat or plane can
turn up the drama.

Stealing from the Sun Panther temple could cost Tokko
his reputation and a chance at joining Rock Raley’s team if
word gets out about the theft.

Undersea Thieves
The fish folk who have taken Tokko’s kite-plane are a band
of exiles from the Lionfish King’s domain. The exiles have

353

Holly and the Coastal Divers’ Lodge
The Mariners’ Guild can help with underwater exploration providing information, equipment, potions, and other
magic items. You can have the characters meet and talk
with a Mariners’ Guild member in Sky Kite Valley.

Potion of Water Breathing
Uncommon, See page 235

You can also open a larger adventure by having the party
travel to the Northern Branch of the Mariners’ Guild to
meet Holly Clintock herself. There, they will learn about
her quest to rebuild the Pointue (see “Coastal Divers’ Lodge,
Northern Branch” in Locations) which can continue the
adventure after this one is completed.
Mariners’ Guild members are generally friendly and
helpful. They are of course operating on their love of the
ocean environment, boundless enthusiasm, and a shoestring budget. Any assistance is always greatly appreciated.
The Mariners’ Guild can offer:
◊ Diving Armor. This specialty diving suit is made from
a heavy metal as has been painstakingly crafted by the
divers lodge. While wearing divers armor your movement
is reduced by 10, unless your Strength score is equal to or
greater than 18. Additionally, whenever the spell Water
Breathing* is cast on you while wearing the divers armor,
the duration of the spell is doubled for you. There is only
one diving suit.
◊ Goatskin Balloons. These are balloon-like leather sacks,
made from a whole goatskin, that magically inflate. They
are mainly used for buoyancy in an emergency. As an
action, the user can pull the chord on the balloon, magically filling it with air and sending a character holding
the balloon rocketing towards the water's surface at a
speed of 100 ft. per round. There are as many goatskin
balloons as there are members of the mission.
◊ Fishfins. These are fish-like fins that an adventurer can
put on their hands and feet. When worn, fishfins grant
the wearer 40-foot movement while underwater. The
lodge only has 1 set of fishfins.
◊ Flarestones. When struck underwater, these little stones
sputter with a bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim
light for an additional 20 feet. Flarestones last for 15
minutes and the lodge can give up to 3 per adventurer.
Above water, they are normal stones.
◊ Enough potions of water breathing to give each character
1 potion.
◊ Diver’s Candy. A hard candy specially made by the
Mariners’ Guild that you can bite down on to release
a puff of air that gives an adventurer 1 turn of Water
Breathing*. Each character is given 1.

354

The Sunken Town
Once preparations are made, Tokko directs the party to
the reef where the kite-plane went down. Tokko is not a
sailor, so if they choose to go via boat, the party must hire a
captain or try to pilot the boat themselves.
The trip to the reef can be perilous or smooth sailing. But
once the party arrives, they can see a colorful reef wall
below the crystal clear waves that goes down 200 feet to a
white sand bottom. After a brief search over the reef, they
can see, far below, a bit of torn cloth caught on an outcropping of coral that Tokko recognizes as a piece of the fabric
cover of the kite-plane.
Once the adventurers go underwater and get to the
bottom of the reef, they can see in the distance, strange
outlines of the sunken town as well as a path leading from
their current location towards it.

Diving in the Shallows
The waters of the Shallows are magically clear allowing for
200-foot visibility before details begin to get fuzzy due to
particles floating in the water.
As adventurers dive beneath the waves, colors begin to
get lost, but the Shallows are magical and colors remain
longer due to their crystal clear waters.
Colors are lost in the following order:
◊ Red at 100 feet
◊ Orange at 150 feet
◊ Yellow at 200 feet
◊ Green at 300 feet
◊ Blue at 500 feet
Rarely are the Shallows deeper than 500 feet.

BUOYANCY
To sink in salt water, characters need to be counterweighted—usually a 20-pound sack of stones worn on the
belt. If they lose this counterweight during their journey
underwater, they will pop to the surface like a balloon at
a movement rate of 40 feet. Because characters are not
breathing compressed air, they will not suffer any ill effects
like the bends, but being highly buoyant can make for some
interesting (and difficult) situations.

SOUND
While words are not understandable underwater, sounds
are highly audible—especially metallic, buzzing, and sharp
clicking sounds—which travel through water at a much
higher speed than air. Because the ears of surface dwellers
are designed for an air environment, sounds made underwater are difficult to locate. This can create an unsettling
mood when a character hears a crunching or strange buzzing noise but can’t locate exactly where its origin is.

VISIBILITY
If a fight occurs on the seafloor or if a character thrashes
around at the bottom, you can choose to impair their visibility due to silt and sand being kicked up. After a round
of combat or if someone uses the dash action, or otherwise
disturbs the seafloor, a cloud of silt 15 feet in diameter is
created. Anyone within it suffers the blinded condition.
This area of poor visibility lasts for 1 minute after all movement has ceased.
If you choose to use this in your game, a character must
be at least 5 feet off the seafloor to not incur this effect.

CURRENTS
Generally, the waters of the Shallows are relatively calm,
but occasionally (if you want to throw in a bit of chaos)
there are strong currents that flow across the sea floor
powerful enough to blow a character over and send them
flying. When a current comes along, each player rolls a d6.
On a roll of 5 or 6, their character gets blown 30 feet in
a direction of your choice unless they succeed at a DC 13
Strength saving throw and hold on to something stationary.
If they are not anchored to the floor, loose objects
(such as a kite-plane) can get carried away in the current.

You can make the experience of being underwater
as much a part of your game as you want to.
Having players deal with the 3D environment,
ambient noises, potentially blinding silt, and other
underwater anomalies can either be a source of
fun or frustration. Make sure you have the kind of
players who enjoy these challenges and limitations
before putting them into play as they are all easily
removed due to “the magic of the Shallows”, which
can be the excuse for why being underwater here is
just about the same as being on land.

Exploring the Sunken Town
The sunken town is from the First Age and can therefore
be as magical as you need it to be to explain any anomalies or quirks of physics and reality. There might be weird
magic effects like an anti-magic zone where potions of water
breathing are nullified or areas that are perfectly dry and
free of water. It’s all your call.
You can also have the adventurers discover how this
place became submerged, plunging them into a deeper
mystery that leads to an adventure after this one.
Before the adventurers near the town, figure out what
direction they are approaching it from. Then describe what
they see as they move onto the map.
The following locations are keyed to the Map of the
Sunken Town.

1.

MAIN ROAD

Because it is a First Age site, the asphalt road shows little
sign of wear or erosion and is fairly clear of any encrustation by marine life like coral and barnacles. There are some
clusters of Knobble Leaf Seaweed growing through the
small cracks in the pavement that wave in the current and
can provide some cover for a small or tiny character but
mostly the main road is clear of debris.

Witch's Eye Coral
Common, See page 209

Seashells
Common, See page 207

Knobble Leaf
Seaweed
Common,
See page 204
Tangleweed
Common,
See page 208

355

1 square = 5 feet

2.

TRAIN CAR

This metal train car has a wood and fabric paneled interior
and can be entered through one of the small hatches in the
roof or through one of the windows or doors on the side of
the car. To allow the characters to enter silently, one of the
windows could be broken.
Inside the train cars are eerie rows of empty seats amid
waving clumps of Tangle Weed.
If you would like, the tracks and depot can also be a stop
for the Wandering Line (see “Wandering Line” in Locations).

3.

TRAIN DEPOT

This is a well-built wooden structure that has arrival and
departure times for the train still visible that are posted
within a glass-covered frame. Behind the ticket counter is
a large cluster of Witch’s Eye Coral. Underneath the coral
cluster is a tiny burrow that is home to a mischievous sea
sprite (use the elemental spirit stat block) companion
spirit named Sligo.

356

Sligo wants the pearl inside of the giant clam that lives in
area 9 (Bloodfin’s Lair). If Sligo is promised the pearl, it will
tell the party all it knows about the fish folk pirates
including some idea of the relationship between Bloodfin
and Slurpgill.
If you would like, Sligo can also give the party a ticket for the
Wandering Line that it keeps buried deep within its burrow.

4.

JOLLY CONE

This was once a First Age ice cream parlor that is now
home to 1d6+2 Blue-Back Salmon.
The stainless steel ice cream
machines are still here although
they no longer work and are
covered in Knobble Leaf Seaweed.
Inside the cash register are a
handful of Seashells.

Blue Back Salmon
Common, See page 201

5.

FISH FOLK HIDEOUT

In this large warehouse, there are 8 fish folk pirates who
are on alert, guarding the kite-plane while Bloodfin figures
out her plan of either presenting her prize to the Lionfish
King or taking it to Venomous Rex to spite her former king.
Bloodfin has a 25% chance of being here when the
characters investigate.
Up to 10 Fish Folk Teeth can be found here after a
10-minute search.

6.

MOXY’S MUSIC GROTTO

Moxy’s is an ancient First Age music store. Rows of racks
that once held vinyl albums, cassettes, and CDs line the
store. Hidden behind the counter is a Vinyl Record.

MORRIS
Swimming inside the music store is a giant sea horse spirit
(use the aquatic beast spirit stat block) named Morris, the
cowardly thief of the kite-plane. Morris is terrified of Slurpgill and is doing his best to get through a dangerous partnership with her, which is why he felt compelled to steal the
kite-plane when asked by Bloodfin—her new favorite pet.
Although he is scared of Bloodfin, he is even more
terrified of Slurpgil, which is why he will remind Bloodfin
at times, “That’s not what Slurpgill would want” if he
senses that she might not bend to the sea hag’s will.
Because of his fears, he won’t hesitate to lie to or tattle on
the party to Bloodfin to survive.

7.

KAT’S ISLAND KITCHEN

This was a First Age cafe. There’s a few tables for customers,
a counter where the food was ordered and a small kitchen
with all the utensils, cookware, chef’s tools, and cafe items.
A series of thumping sounds can be heard coming from
inside the oven. The window to see the inside of the oven
is obscured by a layer of soot. If anyone opens the oven
door, a blowbelly pufferfish (see stat block below) bursts
out in a jump scare moment.

8.

JERRY’S GARAGE

This is a First Age garage with all the tools still intact. There
are wrenches, a mechanical car jack, oil cans, grease guns,
and gauges. There’s an old kei truck and 2 mopeds here.

8A.

TOOLSHED

This is a First Age tool shed that still has a wide assortment of
spanners and ratchets, but it is now a lair for 4 giant crabs*.

9.

BLOODFIN’S LAIR

Bloodfin’s Lair is actually an old Goodie Mart—a First Age
chain of markets. This Goodie Mart is now the private lair
of Bloodfin the Foul (use the merrow* stat block) who
has removed all of the usual things that one would find
in a mini market and has decorated it in what can only be
described as “gothic deepsea chic”.
Among the decorative ribbons of Tangle Weed, skeletons
of sea creatures, garlands of Oporion Glass, Seashells and
sea urchins, Bloodfin has a giant clam that has a 500gp
pearl inside of it. The clam can be opened with a successful
DC 16 Strength (Athletics) check. Also in the giant clam is a
large cluster of giant octopus eggs that belong to the giant
octopus, Lucinda (see area 10a. “Giant Octopus Den” below).

10.

BORISSS’ LAIR

Borisss is a sea snake spirit (use the giant constrictor
snake* stat block but with an INT of 10) who is fiercely
loyal to Bloodfin. He is currently coiled up around his
favorite teddy bear that he found when Bloodfin’s gang first
came to the sunken town.
There is nothing of value here.

10A.

GIANT OCTOPUS DEN

In this little shack is a sad Awakened Giant Octopus (use
the giant octopus* stat block but with an INT of 10)
named Lucinda. Lucinda is a gentle creature, but Bloodfin
is holding her eggs hostage and is forcing Lucinda to be
her junkyard dog. Lucinda doesn’t know her own strength,
but she fears both Bloodfin and Slurpgill and can’t figure
out a way to get her eggs back.

11.

TRAIN STATION STORAGE LOCKERS

This building contains rows of storage lockers, many of
which are open but there are a few that are still locked
(DC 20 Dexterity check to unlock).
Inside one of the storage lockers is an indestructible
suitcase covered in coral. To open the suitcase
requires a successful DC 25 Dexterity check to
open the magic lock. If it is opened, inside is a
Neko Ronin figurine in its original
packaging. The interior of the suitcase
has been magically kept dry, but
if opened underwater, the
enchantment is broken and the
pristine contents are soaked.

Neko Ronin Figurine
Rare, See page

357

Using Monsters to Avert Mayhem

Common Enemy

At any time during the exploration, you can choose to use
monsters to create tension, chaos, or an uneasy alliance,
especially if you want your adventure to be more of a roleplaying experience than a combat experience.

If a fight breaks out between the adventures and the fish
folk and you wish to give the adventures another opportunity to make amends through conversation. We recommend
introducing two seaweed elementals at the beginning
of the second round of combat with Bloodfin and the fish
folk. Bloodfin and her gang may be villains, but they’re not
dummies, and when faced with the threat of the elementals, they can be reasoned with and perhaps even become
allies, if just for a moment.

◊ The blowbelly pufferfish (see below) can act like a ticking time bomb or a laser motion sensor that can go off if
a character makes one wrong move, causing all kinds of
interesting situations. It can also be used against enemies
if used carefully.
◊ A school of frenzied giant sharks* can also be used as a
surprise threat.
◊ Seaweed elementals can be introduced as a deadly and
common enemy to create an alliance between the party
and Bloodfin’s gang.

Pirates
No matter which direction they approach from or how many
buildings they explore, the adventurers will eventually need
to face the fish folk guarding the kite-plane. This conflict can
be solved through clever roleplay and bargaining or combat.
As the party deals with the fish folk in the sunken town,
keep the following in mind:
◊ If an adventurer rolls a natural 20 in combat against a
fish folk, they knock out a fish folk tooth—an item which
can be used to make potions.
◊ Fish folk are always on the lookout for a Nakudama princess of royal bearing who the Lionfish King is so eager to
marry. (For more details, read “Domain of the Lionfish
King - Royal Aspirations” in the Locations section).
◊ If one fish folk is alerted, an alarm is sounded (banging a
tin can), and the other pirates in the gang come running.
◊ Fish folk will flee when there are 3 or less of them left.
◊ Bloodfin the Foul may barter for the glider. Keep in mind
her objective which is to either rejoin the Lionfish King
or betray her former king and join with his archrival,
Venomous Rex, which will please her evil mentor, Slurpgill. Bloodfin will start with unreasonable demands for
the kite-plane. Here are a few ideas:
• Wanting Holly Clintock as a captive in exchange for
the kite-plane.
• Destroy the new Pointue and bring back a trophy for
proof of its destruction.
• Destroy the Mariners’ Guild Northern headquarters.

Slurpgill
Slurpgill is a sea hag who is attempting to start her own coven.
For that, she needs two other hags and Slurpgill believes that
Bloodfin will make a fine hag with the proper training; her
anger and exiled status are perfect tools for manipulation and
drawing her deeper into the hag’s evil clutches.
All the water spirits tremble when they hear Slurpgill’s
name, and her reputation even extends to the witch covens
on land. While Slurpgill doesn’t make a physical appearance
in this adventure, the threat of her power and influence is
felt by all the NPCs that the party interact with in the
sunken town. Slurpgill, like Venomous Rex, is designed to
be an underwater nemesis who can plague the party
throughout their adventures on Obojima. Where Slurpgill’s
lair is, is up to you.
The more you play up the NPCs fear of Slurpgill and have
them tell stories of her wickedness, the more effective and
fun she becomes as a villain in your story. A great villain
makes great heroes.

Wrapping it All Up
Once the adventures have finally obtained the kite-plane,
they’ll have to get creative to remove the craft from the
seafloor. We recommend rewarding creativity here, but if
necessary, Tokko can give a gentle nudge to use any remaining goatskin balloons to help surface the sunken kite-plane.
If needed, he may even have one or two on the ship he can
offer to the party.
Once Tokko returns, he fesses up to Gramps and explains
what has happened. Rather than being angry, Gramps is
incredibly grateful that Tokko is safe and will turn to
embrace the party. Gramps, in Tokko’s absence, has been
worried sick about the grandson. When he saw the kiteplane missing and Tokko along with it, he feared the worst.
So with their return, a huge relief washes over him and he
begins to shed tears of joy.
With the kite-plane returned, along with Tokko, the
adventurers have made friends for life and if you choose,
the story can continue. Tokko and Gramps have a lot of
work ahead of them if they still plan to finish the kite-plane
and enter it into the Rock Raley aviation contest. This will
assuredly lead to numerous adventures and side quests.

358

MAGIC ITEMS
Here is a unique Magic Item that can be found in this
adventure.

Blowbelly Pufferfish
Small Beast, Unaligned

SUNKEN SUITCASE
Very Rare, Wondrous
This magic suitcase is indestructible and fully sealed from
the outside world. When closed, it magically locks itself,
setting its DC equal to 1d20+5.

MONSTERS
Here is a unique monster that can be found in the Shallows.

Blowbelly Pufferfish
Blowbelly pufferfish are generally docile creatures but are
easily startled. If they feel threatened, they inflate instantly
to an enormous size. Anyone touching their prickly skin
can get injected with doses of toxins. When a blowbelly
pufferfish dies, they burst, sending a spray of poisonous
spines in all directions.
Blowbelly pufferfish are often found bobbing along coral
reefs and on the sandy bottom of the sea.

Armor Class 12 (natural armor)
Hit Points 55 (10d6 + 20)
Speed 5 ft., Swimming 30 ft.
CON

INT

WIS

CHA

14 (+2) 10 (+0) 14 (+2)

STR

DEX

2 (−4)

12 (+1)

5 (-3)

Saving Throws Con +4
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Death Burst. When the blowbelly pufferfish dies, it
bursts. Each creature within 15 feet of it must make a
DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 9 (2d8) piercing
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.

Actions
Multiattack. The blowbelly pufferfish makes two
Chomp attacks.
Chomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) piercing damage.
Puff Up (Recharge 5-6). The blowbelly pufferfish
inflates its size, becoming Huge and filling its space.
Each creature in its space is pushed to an unoccupied
space outside the area and must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes
9 (2d8) poison damage and is Poisoned for 1 minute as
the barbs of the pufferfish poke and prod them. On a
successful save, the target takes half as much damage
and isn’t Poisoned. If the creature is pushed into a wall
or similar solid surface, it takes an extra 4 (1d8) bludgeoning damage and is Grappled (escape DC 13); until
this Grapple ends, the creature is also Restrained.
The blowbelly pufferfish stays puffed up until the start
of its next turn, after which it returns to its normal
size. While puffed up, it gains a +2 bonus to its AC.

359

ADVENTURE:
LOST WITHIN THE
CRAWLING CANOPY

T

“Lost Within The Crawling Canopy” is intended for 2 to 4 5th-level characters.

he adventurers have saved Miga, a dara novelist, and Goose, her beloved dog companion from a dangerous howler
attack, only to be surrounded and engulfed by the Crawling Canopy—a moving forest that roams the Gale Fields.
While in the forest, the party encounters a fearsome monstrosity—a crow-like abomination that captures their
newfound friend and melts into the forest. They must now save Miga from this unfortunate series of events and return
her beloved Goose to her.

360

Adventure Begins!

Inside The Canopy

While wandering in the Gale Fields, the adventurers hear
sounds of distress amid the cackling of howlers. If they
investigate, they see a lone dara named Miga (female dara,
commoner*) who is fending off 5 howler yippers.

Whether the adventurers woke up in the forest or were
overtaken by its crawling trees read the following:

On closer inspection, the adventurers can see that one
of the howlers is holding a small dog, which is yapping
and writhing in the hands of the cackling creature. This is
Miga’s beloved pup, Goose, which the howlers have taken
from poor Miga and who she is desperately trying to get
back from them.
When the adventurers arrive, the howlers stay for no
longer than one round, after which they attempt to flee
with Goose in hand. Miga will run after them and ask for
assistance getting her dog back.

After the Conflict
After the encounter, Miga will rejoice as she reconnects
with Goose. She will thank the adventurers and return to
where the fight took place to pick up her scattered papers
and books. Miga tells the party that she is wandering
Obojima looking for glyphs from other dara and writing a
novel about her adventures.
It's at this point that she exclaims how exciting this chapter will be in her book and how she desperately needs to
know more about the beloved heroes who came to her and
Goose’s aid. She'll then ask that the party join her for a meal
and share a camp with her for just one night, after which
she will leave them to continue their journey without her.
Miga’s personality is quite bubbly and excited. She’s quite
young for a dara at the age of 17 and is overly interested in
learning about life outside of Roa Kala (see page 94 to learn
more about Roa Kala).

The trunks and treetops of the forest
that now surrounds you gently sway in all
directions—their bulbous roots curling above
ground like a corkscrew drilling into the soil.
Pillars of light pierce through the canopy above,
before suddenly disappearing as the ground
begins to rumble and shake. In the distance,
you watch as a copse of trees uproot themselves,
shifting and trading places, before planting
their roots once more.

While inside the Crawling Canopy, the forest is constantly
moving and changing. (To learn more about this magical
location see page 78)

Flying Characters
At this level, it would be quite uncommon for the party to
have the ability to give all characters flight to escape. If one
or more characters try to fly away, you can describe that the
forest stretches for miles in each direction, making it an
arduous task to attempt to lead the party out of the forest,
especially as it's constantly shifting and changing.

Other Adventures in the
Crawling Canopy

Engulfed by the Crawling Canopy

Now that the adventurers are thoroughly stuck, you can
choose to extend the story by having the party encounter
a number of mysteries, characters, and odd magics. These
encounters can grow the adventurers’ understanding of the
forest, plant seeds for future adventures, or give breathing
space until the next plot point.

During camp, like the ocean crashing around a stone, the
Crawling Canopy surrounds the party after they’ve been
lulled to sleep by the sweet scent of spinning Windbloom.

Use any of the NPCs or Notable Locations in the Crawling Canopy section of this book. You can also use any of
the following:

If someone is on watch, they hear the forest coming
in the darkness, the rustling of leaves and branches, the
groaning of wood, and the shaking of the earth, all growing
in intensity as the forest encroaches and encircles the party.

Overgrown Caravan

If they try to make a run for freedom, it makes no difference. No matter what direction the party sets off in, they
encounter a wall of trees. The forest is miles wide.

What Miga Knows
Miga has heard rumors about the Crawling Canopy. How
much she knows is up to you, but at a minimum, she tells
the party that the Crawling Canopy shifts and changes, and
the unlucky are trapped in it for a lifetime.

The adventurers discover a caravan of three wagons, overgrown with roots and vines; their once bright colors now
faded. The wagons are intact, though their wooden wheels
are fused with the forest floor by roots.
With an Intelligence (Investigation) check DC 14, the
adventurers will find Lover’s Vine, Peeping Willow, and
Essence of Glumbug stashed away inside the wagons.
Among some rotting ledgers and inventory lists, there
is a journal that tells the tale of a group of merchants who
entered the Crawling Canopy lured by tales of rare herbs,
only to become hopelessly lost as the forest shifted around
them. The journal ends abruptly.

361

1 square = 5 feet

Flying Squirrels

Wandering Monsters

These curious forest creatures follow the party from high in the
canopy and eat any fruit, bread crumbs, or nuts left behind.

Anytime you feel your players need an encounter or a
combat as they are exploring the forest, feel free to choose
one of these monsters.

Breath of the Forest
Every so often, the forest pauses, and a cool breeze blows
through the trees which all sway in unison as if breathing
one great breath.

Echo of the Canopy
Every now and then, the party may hear distorted echoes of
their own voices. It could be a conversation that they had
or a version of it. They could also hear premonitions, their
voices bordering on panic at being lost forever or their voices
could carry a warning of a monster that is hunting them.

362

Roll d20

Monster

1

Stul

2-4

Watchwood Tree (can be more than 1)

5-8

1d6+2 Mosslings

9-14

Lion's Blume (can be more than 1)

15-16

Kafuka

17-19

1d4+2 Howlers

20

Yellow Slime

Senmo the Corvid

The Search

When you are ready, the adventurers encounter Senmo, an
old and delusional crowlike creature who’s called the crawling canopy its home for over 70 years.

If the adventurers decide to give chase, they’ll be thrust into
a paced sprint where they’ll need to navigate the changing environment while keeping track of the beast they’re
hunting. As you describe the shifting trees and adventurer’s
efforts to find Miga and Senmo, have each player roll two
skill checks (one Survival and one Acrobatics). If the sum
of a player's two skill checks is less than 25, their character
suddenly falls behind and is left out of the chase.

Read the following:
You walk in an area darkened by thick
clusters of trees when you catch wind of a
sickening stench wafting on the breeze. The
same zephyr sends a chill up your body, as the
ambient sounds of the forest animals suddenly
grow louder and louder—the croaking of frogs
and buzzing of insects now burning your ears
with their intensity.
Then, as if switched off like some ancient
machine, the air goes silent, and from the
distance, you hear a hollow clacking that
echoes across the forest floor.

Each player must make this dual skill check 3 times before
Senmo eventually escapes with Miga. If any of the players
are able to succeed in all 3 of these skill checks, they are
rewarded with a trinket that will aid them in their search for
Miga. While running, Senmo accidentally slams into one of
the moving trees, knocking loose one of his black feathers.

Meeting the Sheep

A rasping voice then hisses, “I smell you, Dara.”

Whether it is directly after the abduction or during a wrong
turn while chasing Senmo, the adventurers will eventually
stumble on a curious sheep creature who’s taking a break
on a downed tree.

Senmo was made from Malgrotha’s torn flesh and is a
distorted copy or “child” of the imprisoned creature. (see
more on Malgarotha and the origin of the Crawling Canopy
on page 340)

Mr. Sheep can be found wandering all over Obojima
and the Spirit Realm and is known by many names—Lord
Dengu, Ram-Ram, Omen, Din-Poko, and many more, but he
is fine with being called Mr. Sheep. Some say he is an elder
spirit while others say he’s something far beyond that, but
no one knows for sure.

Since Senmo’s creation, it's been wandering the forest
searching for the dara that imprisoned Malgrotha all those
years ago. It too is bound to the confines and the Crawling
Canopy, and after 70 years of searching for dara, has begun
to lose its mind.
Even in its confused and altered state, it still recognizes
its goal. So when it saw Miga it was quick to act. Its tactic is
to rush in, grab Miga, and run off into the forest and back
to its lair, allowing the constantly shifting forest to cover its
tracks behind it.
If one of the party members is a dara, Senmo might hiss
in a panic, unsure which dara to grab, before eventually
deciding to take Miga. While acting out its actions, it might
shout “Which one!?! Which one!?! Which ONE!?!”
In this encounter, Senmo wants to capture its prey and
flee. The moment it has successfully grappled Miga, it will
dash away as quickly as it can, using its abilities to slow and
distract the party when necessary.

Attack of Opportunity
To make Senmo feel even more cunning, you could have it
attack the party during an encounter from the Wandering
Monster Table from the previous page.

Mr. Sheep is usually accompanied by a host of mice that
walk on their hind legs and chatter in nonsensical language.
There are always as many mice as there are lit candles in
Mr. Sheep’s magic lantern as the mice are people who have
broken deals they have made with him.

Deals with the Sheep
Mr. Sheep has a bubbly and curious personality. When he
speaks, he does so with odd phrasing and misused words.
Though no matter how confusing he might be, he never
seems to be confused himself, as he always seems to have
the answer for everything.
When the adventurers first stumble upon him he seems
quite intrigued and immediately offers the party a seat at
his table, the fallen tree he’s laid a small pile of crackers on.
It's here, in this moment, that he’ll poke and prod in his
disarming way to uncover what the party desires—eventually offering to make a deal with them.
Though Mr. Sheep is known to make simple deals, especially for his favorite food—goat cheese, he’s also known
to ask for more cryptic items such as “the color green” or
“the sound of birds”. Should a character make a deal with
Mr. Sheep, he, more often than not, has the magic ability
to deliver on that deal, resulting in the character losing the
ability to see the color green or hear birdsong for example.
This deal can be permanent or temporary.

363

Should a character make a deal with Mr. Sheep to help
find Miga, he explains that he knows how to find a sage,
who in return can lead them to the Senmo’s lair. What the
players don’t know is that the Sage is being held by the
Sheep as one of his mouse followers (see “The Mice” below).
Breaking a Deal. Should a character attempt to break a
deal, a curious thing happens. Mr. Sheep gives one warning.
If Mr. Sheep is not around, this warning can come telepathically or in a dream. If the warning is not heeded, he
lights one of its candles, and the character is turned into
a mouse—thereafter following him on his merry journey
until their debt is paid.

Roleplaying The Sheep
Mr. Sheep never expresses any negative emotions, strolling
through danger and rarely showing alarm or distress. He
instead finds most things amusing and treats them as playthings. Though he is often curious and nosey, he’s just as
likely to lose interest in or outright ignore things he doesn’t
care about. Beyond his seemingly endless array of known
magics, he also seems to be completely invulnerable, able to
consume anything, and immune to spells that attempt to
make him reveal the truth, change form, charm, or try to
read his mind.
There is no stat block for the Sheep as he is not meant for
combat and will simply disappear if attacked.

The Mice
The mice are all cursed, deal breakers who are serving out
their sentences, and they are all wary of Mr. Sheep’s uncanny
power. Every now and then, one of the mice may try to sneak
a hand gesture to get a party member’s attention, but the
Sheep shoots them a stern look and they go back to behaving. The Sheep doesn’t reveal the true nature of the mice and
if asked, says that they just follow him, but because they are
mischievous, he has to keep an eye on them.
The Sage is one of these deal breakers who is now a
mouse in the Sheep’s entourage.

GET LOST, SHEEP!
If the party chooses to not deal with the Sheep, then after
the encounter, the Sage (in his mouse form) finds the party
and gestures for them to follow him (the Sage in mouse
form can’t speak Common but can understand it). If the
party follows him to his hut, and assists in bringing him
one of his old potions, he’ll drink it to restore his form and
will answer their questions.

The Sage
The Sage was a powerful witch who lived within the Crawling Canopy. One hundred and fifty years ago, he broke a
deal with the Sheep and ever since then he has been one of
the mice, cursed to follow the Sheep. The Sage can’t remember what the deal was that he broke, he has been a mouse

364

for so long that many of his memories have vanished only
to be replaced by a burgeoning desire for cheese and a
furtive fear of predators.

The Sage’s Hut
Whether Mr. Sheep takes the adventurers or they are led
by the Sage in mouse form, they arrive at an old abandoned
hut in the woods. The inside of the hut is covered in dust,
and is now home to an array of forest critters.
Once the Sage is inside, either the Sheep releases him and
then vanishes or the Sage asks the party through charades
to fetch a dusty potion from a locked cabinet (DC 14), after
which he drinks it and is restored to his human form.
Grateful for being saved, the Sage agrees to help the party
by giving them an ornate box with a golden beetle inside.
Once released from its box, the golden beetle will fly away
leaving a trail of glowing light—a path of the shortest
distance to the edge of the Crawling Canopy. The golden
trail vanishes in 1 minute, so the Sage warns to only release
the beetle when they are ready to leave.
The Sage also gives them a bottle with a piglet spirit
inside of it. This piglet spirit can sniff out the Senmo and
lead the party to its lair and their friend, Miga.

Showdown!
As the party nears the lair of the lair of Senmo, read
the following:

Again, a sickening stench assaults the senses
as you near the monster’s lair. The trees get
thicker and more twisted until they are no
longer trees but a slick, snarl of thick roots,
trunks, and interwoven vines that create a
massive, squirming nest. Locked within knotted
roots are the carcasses of rusted and crushed
cars, mashed and bent from the pressure of the
squirming trees.
You can hear an unearthly muttering coming
from within the tangled structure. “You will
free us or you will die, dara.”

If one of the adventurers was able to procure one of
Senmo’s feathers, then the party is able to sneak up on
Senmo without it noticing.
In the crushed bed of an old truck is Miga, she looks up
in distress and Senmo paces beside the vehicle berating her,
hoping to obtain some information on the magic that binds
it to the forest.
Its attention is on Miga unless it senses any invaders in
its domain. If it does, it attacks.

Non Combat Option
Although it's likely to end in some conflict, Senmo can be
reasoned with. It has begun to lose some of its better judgment, and so a clever or conniving character might be able
to outwit the creature or convince it to let Miga go.

Senmo

After The Encounter

Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 123 (13d10 + 52)
Speed 30 ft.

With skill, bravery, and a bit of luck, the Senmo is defeated
or outsmarted and Miga is saved. If Senmo is dispatched
the party can then search its lair for loot.
In the tangle, they find:

Large Monstrosity, Neutral Evil

STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

18 (+4)

14 (+2)

12 (+1)

14 (+2)

13 (+1) 10 (+0)

◊ 1 Black Pearl (Ingredient)
◊ 1 Potion of Stink Brew
◊ 6 Spark Plugs (Ingredient)
◊ 1 Sunbaked Cassette (Magic Item)
◊ 1 Potion of Freezing
Once all the loot is divided up, then the party can release
the golden bug and follow it out of the Crawling Canopy.

MONSTERS
Here is what can be found in the Crawling Canopy:

Senmo (The Child of Malgrotha)
Every now and then, Malgrotha tears at its own body in
mindless rage, rending off a piece of its own flesh. This
flesh then wriggles and grows, sprouting limbs and talons
of its own as it struggles to its feet and lurches off into the
forest to hunt. These are the Children of Malgrotha, and
they tirelessly search the forest for their mother. They
believe that every dara is the First Dara—the being that
imprisoned their mother in the Crawling Canopy and who
has the key to releasing them from this moving prison.

Saving Throws Dex +5, Wis +6
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +5
Condition Immunities Frightened
Damage Immunities Necrotic
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 16
Languages Common, Dara
Proficiency Bonus +3
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Keen Sight. Senmo has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Innate Spellcasting. Senmo’s innate spellcasting ability
is Wisdom (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks).
Senmo can innately cast the following spells, requiring
no material components:
◊ At will: Control Animal, Fog Cloud*, Swallow Magic
◊ 2/day each: Beast Transmutation, Mirror Image*,
Misty Step*
◊ 1/day: Lightning Bolt*

Actions
Multiattack. Senmo makes two attacks: one with its
Beak and one with its Talons.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage.
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage.
Black Feather Storm (Recharge 6). Senmo flaps its
twisted wings, unleashing a flurry of sharp, magical
feathers. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must make a
DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18 (4d8) slashing
damage and being knocked Prone on a failed save, or
half as much damage and not being knocked Prone on a
successful one.

365

Thank You
We’ll see you all in the next adventure

