ANCESTRIES OF OBOJIMA
The ancestries found on the island of Obojima include humans, dara, elves, and Nakudama. The culture and history of
the world is built around them and them alone. If you want to fully immerse yourself in the Obojima experience, you’ll
probably want to choose from among these ancestries.
That’s not to say you can’t play other ancestries. It just means you’ll have to introduce them to the island in your own
unique way. For adapting existing 5e ancestries, see page 130.

Humans

Dara

Though they were not the first to arrive on the island,
humans account for Obojima’s most plentiful people. Most
humans live in farming and fishing communities, preferring
a modest, quiet existence among close friends and family.
But it’s also within humans that the spark of adventure
burns brightest, and it’s not uncommon for humans to
yearn to travel the island and explore its mysteries for a
time before returning to a simpler life.

Dara are a mysterious people that emerged from the forests
of Obojima less than 300 years ago. No one knows if they
are from Obojima itself or if they came from another realm.
Even the dara themselves speculate as to their origin,
though most believe they are all descendents of an enigmatic figure known as the First Dara. What is known about
the dara is that they are insatiably curious, a gift they claim
is from their progenitor. Dara often gravitate toward being
wanderers, seeking out anything that interests them, and
many scrawl notes and sketches as they are observing. It’s
hard to know what a dara will be fascinated by next, as they
are just as interested in a small bug trundling over a leaf as
they are a sinuous dragon flying through the sky.

From the Sea
The humans of Obojima regard the island as home, but it’s
clear that it was not always so. Nakudama records tell of
the coming of humans on a fleet of ships that were scuttled upon landing. Whether these humans were refugees,
intrepid adventurers, or simply lost at sea remains unclear.
One interesting note from that time reaches us from a
scroll penned by the sage Ati the Learned who referred to
the event in several places as the return of the humans.
The “return theory”, as current historians call it, is hotly
debated, though it’s clear that First Age technology is curiously connected to humans.

A Message From the Past
Dara possess a unique gift—the ability to absorb a vast
amount of information in an instant through contact with a
magical glyph. These magical symbols, which resemble large
fingerprints, are found on trees throughout Obojima and
can only be seen by dara. A dara who touches one of these
glyphs taps into its reservoir of knowledge. Through it, a
dara could learn not just information, but also new skills.
It is widely believed that many of these glyphs were left by
the First Dara to guide future generations.

125

Dara Lifecycle

Dara Traits

It’s widely understood that one dara’s life begins where
another ends. When a dara is about to die, their final act
is to capture what remains of their soul and store it into
a single glyph, which they place upon a tree. Known as a
parting glyph, it is imbued with the dying dara’s identity,
memories, and skills. There, the glyph waits until it can be
claimed by a new dara.

Your dara character gains traits that enable it to traverse
and flourish on the island of Obojima.

A dara is born from the earth, emerging into Obojima,
fully formed, through the roots of a tree that bears a parting
glyph. Most are born from trees in the sacred grove in Roa
Kala, the ancestral homeland of the dara (see page 94 for
more on Roa Kala), but it could be anywhere a dara has died.
When a dara leaves the soil, they are a blank slate, aware
and without identity until they touch the parting glyph
found at the base of their tree.
Parting glyphs give young dara a set of intellectual tools
to function. In the form of memories, the glyphs offer the
previous dara’s perspective about a world yet to be experienced. For many dara, the parting glyph leads them to Roa
Kala and from there they choose their new life.

Ability Score Increase. One ability score of your choice
increases by 2, and another ability score of your choice
increases by 1.
Age. From the moment dara pop into existence they have
all basic motor functions mastered. By the time a month
has passed they are a fully functioning member of society.
It’s unknown how long a dara can live for, but the average
is roughly 100 years.
Alignment. Dara tend to lead slow-paced observant lives.
Their natural curiosity and desire to learn often leads them
down a life as passive bystanders. They’re not easily swayed
and tend to stay neutral both in conflict and life.
Size. Dara naturally come in a variety of sizes ranging
anywhere from 2 to 7 feet tall, with a weight between 65
and 300lbs. Your size is either small or medium depending
on which type of dara you are: Small (red) or Medium (blue)
Speed. Your base walking speed is based on your size: 25
feet if you’re Small, or 30 feet if you’re Medium.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and
one other language of your choice.
Awakened Skills. You gain proficiency in three skills of
your choice.
Create Talisman. As an action, you can create a magical
paper talisman, which can bestow unique abilities to any
creature in possession of it. When you do so, choose one of
the following forms for the talisman:
◊ Sun Talisman. A creature in possession of this talisman can use its bonus action to activate the talisman, granting it the benefit of the Disengage or Dash
action (its choice).
◊ Earth Talisman. When a creature in possession of
this talisman is reduced to 0 hit points but not killed
outright, the talisman activates, causing the creature to
drop to 1 hit point instead.
◊ Moon Talisman. This paper talisman can be placed on
any weapon as an action. The next time this weapon
successfully hits a target, the talisman activates,
dealing extra radiant damage equal to your level.
The talisman lasts for 1 hour or until it is activated.
Once you use this trait, you can’t do so again until
you finish a long rest.
Sacred Revelation. You possess an innate gift allowing you to perceive and absorb information from the
peculiar glyphs strewn across the island. These glyphs take
the form of intricate symbols resembling thumbprints
and hold the potential to convey anything from simple

126

messages, to complex skills to you. As an action you can
touch and absorb any information stored inside one of
these glyphs.
Impart Knowledge. In Dara culture, the individuals who go
on to obtain wisdom truly worth sharing are blessed with
a unique ability to impart glyphs before their death. This
extraordinary skill is revered amongst the dara.
When you reach 10th level, you gain the ability to impart
messages through dara glyphs. As an action you can press
your hand against any surface and create a thumbprint
shaped glyph unique to you. When creating this glyph you
recite a message, which is stored inside the magical symbol.
The glyph can only be seen by other dara and can be
absorbed by using the Sacred Revelation ability.

The Color of Dara
Dara come in two distinct forms, with many unique
features between them, but most refer to them by their
color: blue or red. There are no social differences between
blue and red dara, and they seem to appear in equal
numbers. The origin of the two types is unknown, though
there is a belief among them that the First Dara looked like
an amalgamation of both types.

BLUE DARA
Blue dara are usually between 6 and 7 feet tall, with bluehued skin and a single large eye found in the middle of
their head. Their body is completely void of hair and they’re
normally quite stout.

As a blue dara you gain the use of the knowledge talisman and are able to produce it once per day in addition to
other talismans you know.
Knowledge Talisman. As an action, you can create a knowledge talisman. When a creature in possession of this talisman
makes an ability check, it can activate the talisman, rolling a
d6 and adding the number rolled to the check; the creature
can roll the die before or after making the ability check. The
talisman lasts for 1 hour or until it is activated. Once you use
this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.

RED DARA
Red dara are much shorter, with an average height between
2 and 3 feet tall. In addition to their smaller stature, they
are easily distinguished from their larger kin by the bright
red hue of their skin and their two eyes.
As a red dara you gain the use of the might talisman and
are able to produce it once per day in addition to other talismans you know.
Might Talisman. As an action, you can create a might talisman. When a creature in possession of this talisman makes
a saving throw, it can activate the talisman, rolling a d6 and
adding the number rolled to the save; the creature can roll
the die before or after making the saving throw. The talisman lasts for 1 hour or until it is activated. Once you use
this trait, you can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.

Spirit Guide by Circumstance
Throughout the ages, the islanders and spirits have coexisted harmoniously, although it would be misleading to
claim that they always agree on everything. Consequently,
elves often find themselves acting as intermediaries
when conflicts arise between spirits and folk from the
Physical Realm.

Elf Traits
You, along with other elves, have been gifted a unique set of
traits akin to the spirits that inhabit the island of Obojima.
Ability Score Increase. One ability score of your choice
increases by 2, and another ability score of your choice
increases by 1.
Age. Elves reach adulthood in their late teens and live less
than a century.
Size. Elves vary in height, which ranges from 5 feet to well
over 6 feet tall. Regardless of your position in that range,
your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common.

Elves
The elves of Obojima possess a deep and special bond with
the enigmatic Spirit Realm and its native spirits. Unlike
other inhabitants of the island, the elves do not form
distinct communities or enclaves as they are not a people
in the traditional sense. This is because elves are born to
human parents. While this occurrence is uncommon, it is
not so infrequent that it is met with disdain or apprehension. Instead, it’s simply understood that an elf exists with
one foot in two worlds.

Marked by the Spirits
Every elf shares common physical traits such as pointed
ears and their keen ability to see in the dark. However, what
sets Obojiman elves apart is the presence of Oaka Marks.
Each elf bears a unique mark that symbolizes their connection to the Spirit Realm. These mystical glyphs appear as
shimmering birthmarks and vary in size from that of a coin
to large enough to cover an entire limb.
Beyond being mere physical markers, Oaka Marks hold
deep significance for elves. They represent their profound
bond with the spirit world and have the potential to bestow
unique supernatural abilities.

128

Darkvision. Thanks to your supernatural gifts,
you have superior vision in dark and
dim conditions. You can see in dim
light within 60 feet of you as if it
were bright light, and in darkness as
if it were dim light. You can’t discern
color in darkness, only shades of gray.
Ethereal Sight. Your ocular prowess
doesn’t stop at darkvision.
Additionally, you can use
an action to shift your
sight into the ethereal,
allowing you to see creatures
on the Spirit Realm, which
appear as glowing outlines of
themselves. This effect lasts for 1
hour. You can use this trait a number
of times equal to your proficiency
bonus, and you regain all expended
uses of it when you finish a long rest.
OAKA MARK

OAKA BIRTHMARK
Courage. You know the Resistance* cantrip and can cast it
without requiring material components. When you reach
3rd level, you can cast Heroism* as a 2nd-level spell once
with this trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you
finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for
these spells.
Fury. You know the Sacred Flame* cantrip. When you
reach 3rd level, you can cast Shatter* once with this trait,
requiring no material components, and you regain the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Charisma is your
spellcasting ability for these spells.
Harmony. You know the Guidance* cantrip. When you
reach 3rd level, you can cast Calm Emotions* once with this
trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you finish
a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for these
spells.
Nature. You know the Dancing Lights* cantrip and can cast
it without requiring material components. When you reach
3rd level, you can cast Animal Messenger* once with this
trait, requiring no material components, and you regain
the ability to do so when you finish a long rest. Charisma is
your spellcasting ability for these spells.

Nakudama

Purity. You know the Spare the Dying* cantrip. When you
reach 3rd level, you can cast Lesser Restoration* once with
this trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you
finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for
these spells.

A sweet treat left untasted, a hot spring left undipped in,
a warm fire left unshared—all considered tragedies by a
people driven to indulge in all the comforts and curiosities
Obojima has to offer. To the other peoples of the island, the
amphibious Nakudama seem to partake in all things with a
sense of eagerness and excitement.

Selflessness. You know the Resilient Friendship cantrip.
When you reach 3rd level, you can cast Gift once with
this trait, and you regain the ability to do so when you
finish a long rest. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for
these spells.

Nakudama tend to eschew enclaves for the more cosmopolitan settlements scattered across the island. They are
highly social. Patrons of tea houses, taverns, and inns are
sure to hear the booming, croaking voices of Nakudama
mingling with crowds.

Did I Ever Tell You the Story About…
NAKUDAMA
EGGS

Life is too short to spend time on anything not worth
recounting in an over-the-top tale later. Sharing and collecting stories is among the most cherished Nakudama traditions. It’s what motivates many Nakudama to travel the
island or frequent social gatherings. A quality story doesn’t
just happen, however. Any Nakudama will tell you it’s one
part lived experience and two parts showmanship, which
includes creative license and allows for at least a bit of exaggeration. The art can be practiced, but experience must be
earned. Therefore, Nakudama tend to venture out regularly
in search of novel stories to share.

Obojima’s Earliest Inhabitants (Perhaps)
Though the details have been lost to history or exaggerated
over years of storytelling, it is generally believed that the
Nakudama were the first people to call Obojima

129

home. Several sites around the island point to an ancient
Nakudama civilization, and many settlements appear to
incorporate Nakudama architecture, which is noteworthy
for its water features.
Other evidence that suggests an earlier Nakudama Age
comes from the tales, which are filled with the fantastical
feats of a powerful Nakudama queen. Though often overly
dramatic in the portrayals, her exploits seem to line up
with recent archaeological findings.

Nakudama Traits
Your Nakudama character gains traits that enable it to
traverse and flourish on the island of Obojima.

Other Ancestries
The following section provides context for how existing
DnD ancestries are represented on the island of Obojima.

Dragonborn
Dragonborn do not naturally exist in the world of Obojima
but could come to exist through other means.

D4

Origins

1

You are the last descendant of an ancient people
that called the island home before the era of
the Nakudama.

2

You were birthed by the sea and are revered as
royalty by fishfolk and other ocean dwellers.

Size. Nakudama adults stand 2 to 3 feet tall and weigh 50
pounds on average. Your size is Small.

3

You are seen as the harbinger who is marking the
return of the great dragon Yutro.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 25 feet and you have a
swimming speed of 30 feet.

4

You were cursed to take this form by a dragon
after you were caught stealing from it.

Ability Score Increase. One ability score of your choice
increases by 2, and another ability score of your choice
increases by 1.
Age. Young Nakudama learn to walk and swim in shallow
waters just a few weeks after birth. They reach adulthood
by the age of 10 and live an average of 45 years.

Amphibious. You can breathe air and water.
Standing Leap. Your long jump is up to 20 feet and your
high jump is up to 15 feet, with or without a running start.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and
Naku Naku.
Grasping Tongue. As a bonus action, you can lash out your
tongue at an object you can see within 15 feet of you that
weighs no more than 5 pounds and pull it to you, catching
it in your open hand or allowing it to fall at your feet. If
the object is being worn or carried by a creature, the creature must succeed on a contested Strength check or have
the object pulled away from it.
Latching Tongue. As a bonus action, you can extend your
tongue to latch onto a surface or creature that is at least
one size larger than you, pulling yourself toward it. The
target must be no more than 15 feet away from you.

130

Dwarves
Dwarves do not naturally exist in the world of Obojima but
could come to exist through other means.

D4

Origins

1

You and your people have been trapped in stone
under the ocean for centuries. During a recent
low tide you and your people were discovered.

2

Your parents traded their subservience to a spirit
so that their child would be born with gifts unlike
any human or elf.

3

A dara sculptor crafted a statue with such passion
and love that the island imbued it with life.

4

During the recent earthquake, a portion of
Mount Arbora cracked open, releasing you and
your people.

To play one of these exisiting DnD ancestries
you must either use the charts below to define
your character’s origins–or create a unique origin
of your own design.

Gnomes

Half-Orcs / Orcs

Gnomes do not naturally exist in the world of Obojima but
could come to exist through other means.

Half-Orcs/Orcs do not naturally exist in the world of
Obojima but could come to exist through other means.

D4

Origins

D4

Origins

1

After being trapped in the wandering forest for
several days, you were forced to eat a strange fruit
which changed your body.

1

You were cursed by a witch who was jealous of
your beauty.

2

2

You were swallowed by an ancient spirit and spit
back up 3 days later. Your body is forever altered
from the experience.

You were once an ogre but after falling in love
with a human you slowly began to change form.

3

You were born to human parents like an elf, but
are seen as more spirit than human.

4

You are the first green dara.

3

You were an apprentice witch whose potion brewing experience led to your current form.

4

You were once a pixie, but after you found a falling star, you made a wish to be human.

Halfling

Tieflings

Halflings do not naturally exist in the world of Obojima but
could come to exist through other means.

Tieflings do not naturally exist in the world of Obojima but
could come to exist through other means.

D4

Origins

D4

Origins

1

Although you are an adult, a curse placed on you
long ago has kept you looking like a child.

1

2

You passed through what you thought was a portal
to the Spirit Realm and instead exited at a random
location on the island in your current form.

You were once human, but after spending many
years within the Spirit Realm, your body began
to change.

2

You are a spirit that has been cast out of the Spirit
Realm and trapped in a material form.

3

A group of beachcombers found you buried under
the sand. When you awoke, you couldn't recall
how or why you were half the size of a human.

3

You washed up on the corrupted coastline and
have no recollection of your previous life.

4

You were once a Nakudama who, through a deal
with a powerful mage, transformed into a human,
but you’ve kept your small stature.

4

You died at the hands of an evil spirit and were
reborn an amalgamation of yourself and the spirit
that killed you.

131

SUBCLASSES
The section below details eleven new subclasses intertwined with the island of Obojima, its culture, and its creatures.
These variants of the classic archetypes are not the only character types you’ll find on the island, but they do provide a
playstyle that feels uniquely Obojiman.

Path of the Belly Brewer
Barbarian

These barbarians are masters of brewing potions on the
fly—directly in their guts! Where others must painstakingly prepare potions with finesse, they channel their inner
hunger to unlock the latent magic within raw ingredients
without any prep.
Those born with the rumble in their belly often find that
regular food can’t quite satisfy. They require something
more unusual. A generation ago, a handful of adventurous
eaters with the appetite set out to find a way to appease
their seemingly unappeasable appetites. This is how they

discovered “belly brewing.” Certain morsels consumed
together not only quieted the rumble for a time, but they
also yielded the potion-like effects they’ve since come to be
known for.

Belly Concoction
Starting at 3rd level, you learn the hard-earned skill of belly
brewing, an arcane technique in which you swallow, mix,
and brew magical concoctions inside your gut, creating a
number of unique effects.
When you enter your rage, you focus your energy to
harness and activate the effects of a belly concoction.
Choose combat, utility, or whimsy. You gain the effects of
the chosen belly concoction, as detailed below. You can
change your belly concoction each time you rage.

COMBAT
Your body undergoes a unique change which magically
alters your physical form, giving it the characteristics of
rubber. While in this elastic state, you can use your reaction
when you are hit by a ranged attack, deflecting it with your
belly. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack
is reduced by 1d12 + your Constitution modifier + your
barbarian level.
Additionally, immediately before you make a melee
weapon attack on your turn, you can use your bonus action
to stretch your arms, increasing your reach by 5 feet for the
rest of the turn. The first time you hit while your arms are
stretched in this way, the attack deals an extra 1d6 damage
of the weapon’s type.

UTILITY
The bubbling elixir in your stomach is perfectly mixed to
dissolve and absorb anything you can swallow. As a bonus
action, you can consume any object you can fit in your
mouth. When you do so, you can expend one of your Hit
Dice as part of this bonus action to heal yourself. Roll the
die, add your Constitution modifier, and regain a number
of hit points equal to the total (minimum of 1). Swallowing
an object in this way destroys it, provided the object isn’t
magical. You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses
when you finish a long rest.

132

WHIMSY
You focus on the magical brew inside you, only to get an array
of strange and unruly effects. While in this state, you gain one
of the following effects at the start of each of your turns:
◊ You teleport to an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you
that you can see.
◊ You take 1d4 necrotic damage; the next ability check you
make before the end of your turn gains a bonus equal to
the number rolled.

Mighty Quick Brew
Starting at 14th level, you learn an additional common
potion as well as an uncommon potion, using your Quick
Brew feature.
Each time you gain a level in this class, you can swap one
of your chosen potions with a different one.

◊ You can immediately take the Help action as a
bonus action.
Additionally, you gain a random visual effect that accompanies the other whimsical features, such as your hair turns
to moss, a spectral bird circles above your head, or a tattoo
of a dancing man appears on your person and moves about
your body.

Side Effects
At 3rd level, you gain a number of magical side effects due
to the countless magical ingredients you’ve ingested. You
learn the Prestidigitation* and Thaumaturgy* cantrips.

Quick Brew
Beginning at 6th level, you’ve learned how to better control
the effects your belly concoction produces.
Choose a common potion that you would normally
consume. You can activate the effects of the chosen potion
as a bonus action. Once you activate it, you can’t do so again
until you finish a long rest. If the potion’s effects require a
saving throw, the DC equals 8 + your proficiency bonus +
your Constitution modifier.
Each time you gain a level in this class, you can swap
your chosen potion with a different one.
An alternate way of using this feature is to
only allow the player to choose from a list of
potion recipes that they’re aware of. If the belly
brewer has yet to learn any potion recipes, then
the GM should provide a list of 10 options to
choose from.

College of Masks
Lingering Effects
At 10th level, the ever-present concoction in your stomach
is now so potent it grants you benefits even when you
aren’t raging.
When you finish a long rest, choose one of the following
conditions: blinded, charmed, exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, or stunned.
You have advantage on saving throws against that condition
until you choose a different one with this feature.

Bard

To be a bard from the College of Masks is to be a theater
actor capable of losing themselves in a role by using masks
they imbue with magic. Through these masks, bards can
mimic others and even take on attributes of the personas
their masks depict.
To see the world through another’s eyes. To show the
world a face not your own. To become someone else. These
are the actor’s pursuits. Some local players might putter

133

about on the stage as a hobby or distraction, but not bards
of the College of Masks. Like liquid bronze being poured
into a mold, these actors have turned their sense of self
into a malleable thing able to transform themselves into
someone else.

Tradition of Performance
The College of Masks not only describes the bard, but it
also refers to an Obojiman theater tradition where a solitary
masked actor plays out a story from the island’s myths and
folktales, which feature a set of archetypal characters such
as the Old Man, the Fish, and the Demon, among others.
Throughout the show, the actor artfully shifts between
masks depicting each character. Each performance is its
own special thing, as no two are the same.

Alter Self
Change Appearance. You transform your appearance. You decide what you look like, including
your height, weight, facial features, sound of
your voice, hair length, coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, if any. You can make
yourself appear as a member of another race,
though none of your statistics change. You also
can’t appear as a creature of a different size than
you, and your basic shape stays the same; if
you’re bipedal, you can’t use this spell to become
quadrupedal, for instance. At any time for the
duration of the spell, you can use your action to
change your appearance in this way again.

Tools of Performance

Many-Masked Performance

When you join the College of Masks at 3rd level, you gain
the ability to weave arcane boons into theater masks, which
grant you abilities while you wear them. You craft two
masks of your choice, which are detailed under the “Masks”
section below. You’re able to craft one additional mask of
your choice when you reach 7th, 11th, and 15th level in this
class. Each time you craft a new mask, you can also replace
one mask you’ve already crafted with a different one.

At 6th level, you gain the ability to enthrall an audience
with a dramatic performance. Over the course of 1 minute,
you can engage in a captivating performance and attempt to
cause nearby creatures to become charmed, frightened, or
fall unconscious (your choice). Choose a number of creatures up to your bard level within 60 feet of you that can
hear you. When the performance ends, each target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save
DC or be subjected to the chosen condition.

While wearing a mask you gain the abilities granted by
it. You can don or swap masks as an action or bonus action.
If an ability from a mask requires a saving throw, the DC is
equal to your bard spell save DC.

Copycat
Starting at 3rd level, you gain the ability to quickly shift
your appearance to match that of a person. As an action,
you can expend one use of Bardic Inspiration to cast the
Alter Self* spell, using the spell’s Change Appearance
option to transform into another humanoid you have seen.
When cast in this way, the spell has the following changes:
◊ It doesn’t require your concentration, but you can still
end the spell at any time (no action required).
◊ You gain 5 temporary hit points, and the spell ends early
if you lose all these hit points or die.
◊ You gain new equipment that you would associate with
the target and are aware of it possessing, such as its clothing, armor, weapons, and other small belongings. Any
equipment gained in this way has no magical properties,
even if the original object used by the target does.
◊ Any equipment you were wearing or carrying merges
into your new form and you can’t activate, use, wield, or
otherwise benefit from any of it.

134

Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.

Gift of Theatre
At 14th level, you gain the ability to give one of your theater
masks to an ally within 5 feet of you. As an action, you
temporarily release the incantation that binds your theater
mask to you, allowing one of your allies to use it. The mask
can be used in this way for 1 minute and only one other
creature can be designated to use it.
Once you’ve given an ally a theater mask, you can’t do so
again until you finish a short or long rest.

Masks
The masks are presented in alphabetical order.
Demon (7th Level Required). While wearing this mask you
gain the abilities Arcane Memory and Demon Eye.
◊ Arcane Memory. While wearing this mask, you can use
an action and expend a spell slot of 1st level or higher to
magically learn whether a creature or object you specify
has been within a 20-foot radius of your current location
in the past 24 hours. If you expend a spell slot of 3rd level
or higher, you get a brief vision of the creature or object
while it was there, and you learn the exact time the creature or object was present.

◊ Demon Eye. As an action, you gain the ability to magically see through solid objects to a range of 15 feet. Your
vision penetrates most barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot
of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or
3 feet of wood or dirt.
Harpy (11th Level Required). While wearing this mask
you have a flying speed of 30 feet and resistance to
psychic damage.
Fish. While wearing this mask you gain a swimming speed
equal to your walking speed and the ability to breathe
underwater. Additionally, you know the Water Bullet and
Whelm Weapon spells.
Fox. While wearing this mask, you can move through a
hostile creature’s space, regardless of its size, and another
creature’s space isn’t difficult terrain for you. Additionally,
your AC increases by 1 and when you make a Dexterity
saving throw, you can use your reaction to gain advantage
on the roll.
Golem (7th Level Required). While wearing this mask, your
weapon attacks deal an extra 1d8 damage on a hit. If you are
Small, you don’t have disadvantage on your attack rolls with
weapons as a result of the heavy property. In addition,
your attacks and spells deal double damage to objects
and structures.
Old Man. While wearing this mask, you can cast Detect
Magic* and Identify* at will, without expending a spell slot
or material components.
Protagonist. When you roll initiative while wearing this
mask, you gain temporary hit points equal to half your bard
level (rounded up). As a bonus action, you can mark a creature as your antagonist for 1 minute. For the duration, you
have advantage on ability checks involving your antagonist.
Additionally, when you see your antagonist make an attack,
you can use your reaction and expend a use of your Bardic
Inspiration, rolling a Bardic Inspiration die to reduce the
attack roll by the number rolled on the die.
Sea Urchin. While wearing this mask, you can use a bonus
action and expend a use of your Bardic Inspiration, rolling
a Bardic Inspiration die to heal yourself for a number of hit
points equal to the number rolled plus half your bard level
(rounded up).

Additionally, you can use an action to attempt to immobilize a creature you can see within 30 feet of you, injecting it
with magical toxins. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or become restrained for 1 minute. At
the end of each of its turns, the target can repeat the saving
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. You can use
this ability a number of times equal to your proficiency
bonus, and you regain all expended uses of it when you
finish a long rest.
Spirit (7th Level Required). While wearing this mask, you
know the Speak with Dead* spell. Additionally, you can
expend a use of your Bardic Inspiration to temporarily move
through the Spirit Realm. Whenever you would move, you
instead step through the veil and into the Spirit Realm in
the area where it overlaps with your current plane. You
remain in the Spirit Realm until you stop moving or your
turn ends. If you occupy the same spot as a solid object or
creature when this happens, you are immediately shunted
to the nearest unoccupied space that you can occupy and
take 1d10 force damage.
While on the Spirit Realm, you can only affect and be
affected by other creatures on that plane. Creatures that
aren’t in the Spirit Realm can’t perceive you and can’t
interact with you, unless a special ability or magic has
given them the ability to do so. You ignore all objects and
effects that aren’t on the Spirit Realm, allowing you to move
through objects you perceive on the plane you originated
from. This effect lasts until the end of your turn.
Stone Mask. While wearing this mask, you gain proficiency in the Athletics skill and all bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage you take from nonmagical attacks is
reduced by 2. Additionally, you have advantage on ability
checks and saving throws against being pushed, pulled, or
knocked prone while wearing the mask.

Circle of the Petal
Druid

In the tranquil groves where nature’s harmony sings loudest, there exists a circle of druids attuned to the delicate
dance of petals upon the breeze. These druid guardians of
the natural world, known as the Circle of the Petal, draw
their power from the spirit of Obojima, the steady island
breeze and the ephemeral beauty and resilience of flowers.
Embracing these subtle powers, they harness the whispers
of the wind and the gentle caress of petals to weave their
enchantments and shape the world around them.
Members of the Circle of the Petal are revered for their
deep connection to the sacred dawn petal tree and their
ability to evoke its serene splendor in both peaceful
sanctuaries and in dire situations. These druids become
conduits of life energy, channeling the essence of blossoms
into healing balms, protective barriers, and devastating
bursts of floral fury. Guided by the eternal cycle of growth,
bloom, and decay, they embody the ever-renewing vitality
of nature, ensuring that even in the darkest of times, hope
blossoms anew like petals on the wind.

Petal Dance
At 2nd level, you become permeated with the spirit of
Obojima and are now able to control a fraction of Obojima’s
magic that manifests as flower petals of the druid’s choosing. As a bonus action, you can expend a use of your Wild
Shape to call on this power and conjure a resilient cloud of
petals that functions as an extension of your own being. This
cloud lasts for 1 hour. While enveloped by the cloud, your AC
increases by 1 and you gain the following benefits.
As a bonus action, you can cause your petals to
lunge toward a creature you can see within 30 feet of
you, slashing at its body. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target using your spell attack bonus.
On a hit, the target takes 1d6 slashing damage.
This damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th
level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
Additionally, when you or a creature you can see
within 10 feet of you takes damage, you can use
your reaction to reduce that damage by an amount
equal to your druid level + your Wisdom modifier.
Once you’ve used your petal cloud in this way, the
cloud dissipates.

Petal Beast Mimicry
At 6th level, you gain the ability to imbue life into your
petals. As an action, you can summon a spirit that has the
appearance of a creature of your choice. This spirit arrives as
a great wind that overtakes the petals before transforming
into the desired beast, which you control. The spirits uses
the bestial spirit statistics, with the following changes:

136

◊ Its hit points are equal to three times your
druid level.
◊ When it takes the attack action its attack modifier is equal
to your spell attack modifier.
◊ In addition to its walking speed, it has a flying speed of 20
feet and can hover.
◊ It can move through the space of other creatures as if they
were difficult terrain.
The spirit appears in an unoccupied space of your choice
within 30 feet of you and acts on your turn. The spirit can
only take the Dash and Attack action. If the spirit is reduced
to 0 hit points, it explodes in a stunning spectacle of cascading petals. Until the end of your next turn, all creatures
within a 20-foot radius centered on the spirit are affected by
the Faerie Fire spell. Alternatively, the spirit disappears after
1 minute or if you dismiss it early (no action required).
Starting at 11th level, you can expend two uses of this ability to summon two bestial spirits, instead of one, when you
use this action.
You have two uses of this feature, and you gain an
additional use of it when you reach certain levels in this
class: 11th level (three uses) and 16th level (four uses). You
regain all expended uses of this feature
when you finish a long rest.

Spirit of Obojima
Starting at 10th level, the spirit of Obojima comes to your
aid in both subtle and grand ways. Whenever making a
Wisdom (Survival) check to find a path or creature, the
wind carries a collection of brilliant white petals in the
direction you seek. You have advantage when making these
skill checks.
Additionally, you can use an action to magically call forth
a massive swarm of petals, which create a great barrier. In
a space that you can see, a wall of shifting petals forms.
This wall is 1 foot thick, 15 feet tall, and up to 60 feet long.
It appears in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or
vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating or resting on a solid surface. If the wall cuts through a creature’s
space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of
the wall (your choice which side).
Nothing can physically pass through the wall except for
creatures designated by you. It is immune to all damage,
as the petals magically heal any hole that would be created
by an attack or effect. This wall lasts a number of minutes
equal to your druid level.
Once you use the petal barrier, you can’t use it again until
you finish a long rest.

Winds of Revival

Bestial Spirit
Medium Spirit, Unaligned

Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 38 (8d6 +10)
Speed 40 ft.
STR

DEX

CON

INT

WIS

CHA

15 (+2)

15 (+2)

15 (+2)

9 (-1)

12 (+1)

9 (-1)

Skills Intimidation +1, Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses Passive Perception 13
Languages Common
Challenge 1 (200 XP)

Proficiency Bonus +2

Promising Threat. The bestial spirit has advantage
on Charisma (Intimidation) checks if the target has
seen it hit a creature with its chomp attack in the
past minute.

Actions

Starting at 14th level, the spirit of Obojima comes to your
aid in your times of greatest need. When you are reduced to
0 hit points, you instead regain half of your hit points and
are lifted to your feet amidst a turbulent tempest of petals.

Chomp. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) piercing damage. If the target is
a creature, it must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving
throw or be knocked prone.

You can then immediately use your reaction to send a
wave of concussive wind sweeping out from you. Each
creature in a 10-foot radius centered on you must succeed
on a Strength saving throw against your spell save DC
or be pushed 15 feet away from you and suffer 2d8
slashing damage.

Reactions
Devour. When the bestial spirit reduces a creature to 0
hit points, it consumes some of the creature’s essence,
regaining 1d10 hit points.

Once you use this feature, you must finish a long rest
before you can use it again.
DAWN BLOSSOM BRANCH

137

The Spirit-Fused
Fighter

Even the life of a spirit must come to an end.
Those who take on the moniker of a spirit-fused fighter
do not normally do so by choice but rather by circumstance. Because to become a spirit-fused fighter, you must
first become the vessel of a dying spirit, a task that can’t be
accomplished by choice, as no one truly understands how or
why this occurs.
All that is known is that the spirit's mind and body have
passed on, and its essence now coexists within the fighter,
granting them abilities beyond the capability of a normal
spirit. Those who can harness this power can channel the
latent energy into objects, which produce a magical quirk
or powerful attacks. These arcane tricks are how these
unconventional warriors fight and are the reason they have
garnered so much attention and interest on the island.

Arcane Quirk
As the host of a powerful spirit, the magic within you can
be strange and unruly. Though you’ve learned to control
your powers, the arcane energy can still spark to life, often
creating strange effects.
Choose one or more of the Arcane Quirks listed below:
◊ When activating any of the features from this subclass,
First Age technology around you begins to act haywire.
◊ Whenever you make a weapon attack, a radio or cassette
player on your person plays a snippet of a song.
◊ Whenever you take damage you cough bubbles.
◊ Spirits find your odor to be incredibly off-putting.
◊ Spirits find your odor to be incredibly attractive.
◊ When you are unconscious, your body floats 1 foot off the
ground and can be carried by the wind.
◊ When you successfully land a critical hit on a creature,
your head randomly transforms into a strange visage
such as an anthropomorphic pig head, a crimson-skinned
version of yourself with flaming locks, the face of an
Urugama, or a CRT TV. This transformation lasts until you
transform again or take a long rest.

Channel Essence
Starting at 3rd level, you gain the ability to channel spirit
energy into your attacks. You have a pool of four d6s that
you spend to fuel this ability, which are called essence dice.
When you make a weapon attack roll against a creature,
you can expend a die from your pool to add it to the roll.
Alternatively, you can expend a die from your pool to add it
to the attack’s damage roll. You can choose to do this either
before or after making the attack roll, but before any effects
of the attack are applied.
You regain all of your expended essence dice when you
finish a short or long rest.
You gain an additional d6 for your essence dice pool at
certain levels in this class: 7th level (5d6), 10th level (6d6),
15th level (7d6), and 18th level (8d6).

Object Channeling
Beginning at 3rd level, you gain the ability to channel your
internal spirit energy into objects, creating an array of
effects. You learn one Channeling Option of your choice
(see “Channeling Options” below). In addition, you gain
an object of your choice that you can use to channel the
option through.
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you
finish a short or long rest.
You also gain proficiency in the Salvage skill.

138

Spirit Battery
Starting at 7th level, you learn the Jolt cantrip with the
following changes:
◊ When you target a machine with the spell, the machine is
powered for 1 hour instead of 18 seconds.
◊ Your spell attack modifier is equal to your Constitution
modifier + your proficiency modifier.
Additionally, once on each of your turns when you hit a
target with a weapon attack as part of the attack action, you
can replace its damage with that of the Jolt cantrip. When
you do so, you roll the Jolt cantrip's damage dice (which
deals lightning damage) in place of the weapon's damage
dice, and you can gain no other benefits to the attack's
damage from other features or spells.
You count as the spirit creature type.

Improved Object Channeling
At 7th level, you learn an additional Channeling Option,
and you can now use your Object Channeling feature a
number of times equal to your proficiency bonus. You
regain all of the expended uses when you finish a short or
long rest.

Improvised Armor
Starting at 10th level, you learn to channel your energy into
objects you are wearing, causing them to become harder
than steel for a brief moment. When you are hit by an
attack, you can use your reaction to roll one of your essence
dice, adding the number rolled to your AC for that attack,
potentially causing the attack to miss you.

Backup Battery
At 15th level, you learn to draw on the spirit energy within
you to gain a quick rush of energy. You gain an additional
use of your Second Wind feature. When your hit points
drop below your fighter level while you have a use of
Second Wind, you can choose to expend a use of Second
Wind immediately (no action required).

Junk Master
Starting at 18th level, you gain an additional channeling
option from the Object Channeling feature.
In addition, when you roll initiative and have no uses of
your Object Channeling feature left, you regain two uses of
that feature.

CHANNELING OPTIONS
The channeling options are presented in alphabetical order.
Ballooning Bag. As a bonus action, you cause a bag (such
as a canvas sack, backpack, fanny pack, or satchel) that you
are holding or is on your person to rapidly inflate with air.
The bag then floats upward, lifting you off the ground and
carrying you up to 30 feet straight into the air. You hover in
place there until you let go of the bag (no action required)
or until the start of your next turn, at which point the bag
gently floats back to the ground.
Alternatively, when falling you can use your reaction to
cause the bag to inflate, granting you the benefits of
Feather Fall*.
Entangling Cord. When taking the attack action, you can
choose to replace one of your attacks with an entangling
strike. Choose an object that features tendril-like properties
(such as a tape measure, game controller, extension cord,
rope, or chain). The object can be on your person or within
30 feet of you, provided you can see it.
When you do so, the object springs to life, stretching out
towards a creature you can see within 15 feet of it. Make
a ranged attack using your Constitution modifier + your
proficiency bonus. On a hit, the target is pulled up to 15 feet
towards the object.
Find the Thing. As an action, you focus your energy through
a navigational object (such as a compass, GPS, or map).
Doing so allows you to cast the Locate Object* spell with
the following changes:
◊ The spell doesn't require you to concentrate on it.
◊ The spell's duration is 1 hour.
◊ The spell can detect an object within 1 mile of you
instead of 1,000 feet.
First Age Steed. You enact a ritual that creates a bond with
a special vehicle of your choice (such as a bicycle, moped,
or similar object you can sit on). This vehicle can only carry
one creature, has a walking speed of 60 feet, and does not
have a flying speed.
As an action, you can summon that vehicle to your side.
While summoned the vehicle is indestructible and disappears in a puff of smoke after 1 hour.
Goggled Vision. While wearing an ocular covering (such as
ski goggles, spectacles, sunglasses, or a welding mask), you
can use an action to see in dim light within 60 feet of you
as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were
dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only shades
of gray.
Additionally, you have advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks to determine if something is an illusion.
These effects on your goggles last for 1 hour.

139

Leaping Sneakers. While wearing a pair of shoes you can
use a bonus action to add a spring to your step. For 1 hour,
you gain the benefits of the Jump* spell.
Pocket Voice. You spend 1 minute enacting a ritual that
binds your voice to an object you can see that looks as if it
would produce a sound (such as a boombox, pair of headphones, statue with a mouth, portrait of a person, radio, or
jewelry box).
Your voice stays bound to the object for 1 hour, or until
you dismiss the effect as a bonus action. While bound,
everything you say can also be heard through the object.
Water Jettison. As a bonus action, you spray a misty stream
of water from a container on your person (such as a waterskin, soda can, squirt water bottle, or spray bottle). Doing so
moves you 10 feet backwards in a straight line and grants
you the benefits of the Disengage action.

JOLT
Evocation cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A jolt of electricity springs from your hand towards a
creature you can see within range. Make a ranged spell
attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8
lightning damage.
Alternatively, you can target a machine within range and
temporarily turn it on, allowing it to function as if it were
whelmed by a spirit or permanently enchanted. Machines
targeted by this spell stay powered for 18 seconds before
turning back off. For a machine to function using this spell,
it must still be in working condition.
The spell's damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th
level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Sheep Dragon Shepherd
Monk

The sheep dragon is often regarded as the epitome of
goodness and authenticity on the island. These creatures
are dedicated to freedom and unwavering kinship. Those
shepherds living and training among the wandering sheep
dragons learn to care deeply for those around them and
understand how a flock works together to overcome obstacles. They must be ready to flee to safety yet know when
to defend their herd. The role of a sheep dragon shepherd
requires resilience, compassion, and a kind heart. Because
of this, shepherds across the island are regarded by
the people of Obojima as heroic and sometimes even
mythic figures.

Historic Past
As the tale goes, the first shepherd was a wind spirit who
went by the name Ventu. The spirit lived among the grass
and called all that grazed the central fields of Obojima their
friend, but of those creatures, none pleased Ventu more
than the playful sheep dragon. In time Ventu and the sheep
dragon became inseparable. The seasons would speed away,
and still, the pair would frolic and parade the Gale Fields
with careless glee. It's during this time that people say
Ventu gifted the sheep dragon the ability to fly and control
the winds.
One day, as Ventu explored the fields, they noticed
something unsettling in the distance. A great pillar of black
smoke split the horizon in two. Ventu rushed across the
rolling hills, only to be met by terrible disaster. A raging fire
had scorched the southern fields and slowly crawled northward. Ventu, heartbroken at the thought of what might
become of the sheep dragon just beyond the hillside, made
the heroic choice to stand against the inferno by themself.
To this day, it's unknown what became of Ventu, but the
majestic sheep dragon stands as a testament to their kindness and bravery.

Herding Sheep
At 3rd level, you gain the ability to herd your allies, calling them closer or moving them out of danger. As a bonus
action, you can spend 1 or more ki points to cause a willing
creature that you can see within 60 feet of you to move
toward you or in any other direction. This movement
doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. If the creature moves
toward you, it can move up to 15 feet per ki point spent; if it
moves in any other direction, it can move up to 10 feet per
ki point spent. A creature can’t move in this way more than
its speed would allow.
At higher levels, when you use this feature you can target
additional creatures. At 5th level you can target 2 creatures,
3 creatures at 10th, and 4 creatures at 15th.

140

Wind Shot

Take to the Skies

When you reach 6th level, you gain the ability to mimic the
sheep dragon's wind pistol, blasting enemies with powerful gale forces at a distance. When you make an unarmed
strike, you can instead choose to make a special attack, firing
a compressed blast of air from your mouth. This ranged
weapon attack has a range of 60 feet, and it uses the same
attack bonus and damage die as your unarmed strike.

By the time you reach 11th level, you’ve mastered a unique
technique that lets you glide on the wind, just like a majestic sheep dragon. When you use your Step of the Wind, you
also gain a flying speed equal to your walking speed. This
flying speed lasts until the end of your turn.

Additionally, when you hit a target with this special
attack, you can choose to spend 1 ki point to force the target
to make a Strength saving throw against your ki save DC. On
a failed save, the target is knocked prone or pushed 10 feet
away from you (your choice).

Intercepting Maneuver
Also at 6th level, your protective nature comes out in
heightened moments of skillful deflection for a nearby ally.
As a reaction, when a friendly creature within 10 feet of you
is hit by an attack, you can spend 1 ki point to reduce the
damage it takes by an amount equal
to one roll of your Martial Arts die
+ your Dexterity modifier.

Additionally, when you use your Step of the Wind, you
simultaneously take both the Disengage and Dash action.

Guide to the Herd
At 17th level, your vigilant watch of your companions while
in the midst of combat allows you to give them cues as
to when they should raise their defenses. Whenever you
use your Patient Defense to gain the benefits of the Dodge
action, you can spend 1 additional ki point to share that
benefit with your allies. Each friendly creature that can see
or hear you and is within 30 feet of you can immediately
use its reaction to also gain the benefits of the Dodge action
until the start of your next turn.

141

Tenets of the River
The tenets of the Oath of The River vary by paladin, but
all of them revolve around embracing the flow and adaptability found in water. Paladins who uphold these tenets
must understand when it is best to dispatch justice through
violence or through understanding and forgiveness. The
core principles of the tenets are:
The River Flows On. Forgiveness can be as sharp as
any blade.
The River Quenches or Drowns. Judgment is reserved
for those truly deserving of it.
The River Rages. If I must battle, I will fight with all my
passion and strength.
The River Seeks the Sea…Always. I will not abandon my
duty, especially when others are counting on me.

Oath Spells
You gain oath spells at the paladin levels listed.

Religious Archetypes
In Obojima, there are no deities of any sort,
which means characters like clerics and paladins
must instead draw their power from some other
sources. Alternatively, these heroic characters
draw their strength from their devotion to ideals
and the natural magic that comes from a person
who dedicates their life to their beliefs.

Oath of the River
Paladin

Those who commit themselves to the Oath of the River
have found guidance in the shifting waters and the great
creatures that live within them. These diverse individuals model their lives and the tenets they follow after the
tranquil waters of a blue pool and the rushing rapids that
spill over a great waterfall, always striving to flow around
obstacles if possible, but ready to crash through them when
left with no other option. As the river flows and bends, it
seeks the path of least resistance in its travels to the ocean.
Like the river, paladins who have sworn this oath remain
adaptable but steadfast in their own course.

142

Paladin
Level

Spells

3rd

Bless*, Whelm Weapon

5th

Find Steed*, Lesser Restoration*

9th

Water Breathing*, Water Walk*

13th

Control Water*, Freedom of Movement*

17th

Mass Cure Wounds*, Submerge

Channel Divinity
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the following
two Channel Divinity options.
Rushing Rapids. As an action, you can cause a forceful
wave of water to erupt outward in a 20-foot radius centered
on you. Each Large or smaller creature of your choice in the
area must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed
5 feet outside of it.
Blessed Pool. As a bonus action, you speak gentle yet
courageous words that encourage your allies and heal them.
Choose a number of creatures up to twice your Charisma
modifier (minimum 2) that you can see within 30 feet of
you. Each creature regains 2d6 hit points.

Aura of the River
Starting at 7th level, you emanate an aura that causes the
area around you to feel as if wading into a body of water,
slowing down your enemies as they approach. The area
within 10 feet of you is considered difficult terrain for other
creatures. You can designate any number of creatures you
can see to be unaffected by it (no action required).

However this fate has befallen you, you now are both
cursed and empowered by the Corruption’s rotting, withering magic that is slowly taking you over bit by bit, replacing
your own flesh with its unearthly power.
As a corrupted being you must choose your future wisely,
it’s hard to say what this illness will manifest in you.

In addition, the first time you hit a Large or smaller
creature on your turn with a melee attack, you can use your
aura to move the target up to 10 feet to an unoccupied space
you choose.
At 18th level, the area within 30 feet of you, instead of 10
feet, is considered difficult terrain for other creatures.

Shielding Spirit
Beginning at 15th level, whenever you make a Dexterity saving throw, you can use your reaction to halve any
damage you would take from the effect. When you do so,
you can also expend a spell slot to extend this benefit to
nearby allies. Choose a number of creatures within 10 feet
of you equal to the level of the spell slot expended; the
damage is also halved for each of those creatures.

Form of the River
Starting at 20th level, you can manifest the powerful visage
of a river spirit around your body. As a bonus action, you
gain the following benefits for 1 minute:
◊ You gain a swimming speed of 60 feet, and your walking
speed increases by 15 feet.
◊ You have advantage on all saving throws.
◊ Whenever you successfully move a creature with your
aura you can choose to deal 2d8 bludgeoning damage to it.
Once you use this bonus action, you can’t use it again
until you finish a long rest, unless you expend a 5th-level
spell slot to use it again.

Corrupted Ranger
Ranger

You have become afflicted by the mysterious illness that
haunts the island known as the Corruption. This same foul
magic, which has stained the coastlines black, now resides
within your body. It curses your skin and seeps from your
pores, and in time it will even become difficult to distinguish you from it.
How this has happened is your story to tell. You may have
been one of the first responders to the Corruption when it
came to the shores of Obojima leaving you to possibly be
the only survivor of that brave band of rangers. Perhaps you
were an explorer, who stumbled on a pocket of Corruption
and became infected, or maybe you were inflicted with this
Corruption by an evil witch.

1st Manifestation
Starting at 3rd level, the Corruption within begins to manifest in combat.
Whenever you take damage, you also receive a curse
marker; if the damage was from a critical hit, you receive
two curse markers instead. These markers will remain
active until the end of your next turn, and the maximum
number of curse markers you can accumulate at a time is 2.
When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, all the curse
markers you have gained are instantly consumed, dealing
an extra 1d4 necrotic damage to the target for each curse
marker consumed.

143

Alternatively, you can use a bonus action to call upon
your Corruption to immediately gain the maximum
number of curse markers available to you. When you
use this ability, you can’t gain more than your maximum
number of curse markers.

Alternatively, you can give your breath to another creature. Whenever a creature you can see makes a Dexterity
saving throw, you can use your reaction to give it advantage
on the saving throw and increase its speed by 15 feet until
the start of your next turn.

The number of curse markers you can accumulate at once
increases when you reach certain levels in this class: 3 at
5th level, 4 at 11th level, and 5 at 17th level.

Losing Feeling. Numbness creeps into your muscles and
bones and across your skin. The vibrancy of feeling gives
way to a broad antagonism. Your hands and arms instead
burn with a cold ethereal flame, which only you can see.
As a bonus action, you can target a creature you can see
within 60 feet of you, enveloping it with the same cursed
flames. When you deal damage with your curse markers to a
creature that has been enveloped by your flames, each curse
marker deals an extra 1d6 necrotic damage, instead of 1d4.

2nd Manifestation
At 3rd level, you start to observe peculiar happenings
within your own body. At times you notice that your limbs
and torso exhibit independent movements, seemingly
acting of their own volition.
When you make a Strength or Dexterity check, you can
choose to replace the result with a number equal to 10 +
your ranger level. You can wait until after you roll the d20
before deciding to use this feature, but must decide before
the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails. You can use
this feature a number of times equal to half your proficiency bonus (rounded up), and you regain all expended
uses when you finish a long rest.

3rd Manifestation
Starting at 7th level, when you make a weapon attack against
a creature, you can expend one curse marker to roll a d4
and add it to the attack roll. You can choose to use a curse
marker in this way before or after making the attack roll. You
can expend a curse marker in this way only once per turn.
Additionally, whenever you take damage, you can use your
reaction to reduce the damage taken by an amount equal to
your ranger level. Once you reduce damage in this way, you
can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest.

4th Manifestation
At 11th level, your ailment is beginning to have side effects on
your body. Gain one of the following ailments of your choice.
Graying Vision. Your eyes weaken and the world around
you begins to lose some of its colorful luster. To adjust to
your slowly worsening vision, you’ve gained blindsight out
to a range of 15 feet. In addition, you automatically detect
visual illusions if their Intelligence (Investigation) check DC
is less than or equal to your ranger spell save DC.
Failing Lungs. YYour lungs have begun to ache and your
days are filled with excessive coughing. At times you feel
yourself gasping for air, and it’s in those moments you’ve
learned to steal another’s breath. As an action, you pull
your next breath from a creature you can see. The target
falls prone and can’t take reactions until the start of your
next turn. Additionally, all of your curse markers are
consumed, dealing 1d4 necrotic damage to the creature for
each marker consumed in this way.

144

Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you
finish a short or long rest.

5th Manifestation
Starting at 15th level, you gain the ability to call upon the
Corruption which greatly alters your natural capabilities. As
a bonus action, you can activate this feature, doubling your
walking speed, increasing your AC by 2, and allowing you to
make two additional attacks when taking the Attack action.
In addition, all attacks are treated as if you have the maximum number of curse markers accumulated. The effects of
this feature last until the start of your next turn. You can
use this ability without negative effects once per long rest.
If you use this feature a second time before finishing a
long rest, in addition to the effects wearing off at the start
of your next turn, you also suffer one level of exhaustion
and immediately drop to 1 hit point if you have more than 1
hit point at the start of your turn.
Once you use this feature a second time, you can’t use it
again until you finish a long rest.

Waxwork Rogue
Rogue

Waxwork rogues have a long history on the island of
Obojima in dealing with the dangerous and the arcane.
They’re known for having an array of tools and tricks to
delve into the most perilous of places and almost always
coming back with treasures and tales. To a Waxwork rogue,
any challenge or danger can be solved with a bit of wax, a
pinch of smarts, and a whole lot of magic.

In the Beginning
The Courier Brigade was created to carry packages between
villages as well as guard merchant wagons through treacherous areas. But there are some areas on Obojima that are rife
with the arcane, spirit dangers, and uncanny occurrences.
Legend says that it was Lydia Starwright, Courier Brigade
First Class, who, against all advice, sought out the aid of
a powerful witch who was rumored to live within a hut
of melted wax deep within the Land of Hot Water. It was
there in that melted hut where the witch taught Lydia the
arcane practices known only to certain spirits of the island,
the ability to enchant wax and fire in wondrous ways. It
was this knowledge that transformed Lydi into the first
Waxwork Rogue.

Saving Throws. Some of your enchantments require creatures to make a saving throw to resist the enchantment’s
effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
Enchantment save DC = 8 + your proficiency
bonus + your Intelligence or Charisma modifier
(your choice)
Wick Points. You have 3 wick points, which represent your
current ability to harness the magic from the Spirit Realm.
Manipulating the magic from another realm and pulling
its energy into an object, even one as small and simple as a
candle, can be both physically and mentally taxing. When
you spend a wick point, it is unavailable until you finish a
short or long rest, at the end of which you regain all of your
expended wick points.
Whenever you gain a level in this class, you gain 1 additional wick point.

Lydia brought back this knowledge to the Courier Brigade,
and formed the Waxworks Division, a dedicated group of
arcane rogues who would volunteer for the most perilous
assignments and deliveries of the Courier Brigade.
In the present day, Waxwork rogues
have transcended the ranks of the Courier
Brigade, and their skill sets are practiced
across the island.

Conjure Flame
At 3rd level, you learn the Dancing Lights* cantrip
(the lights appear as floating candles) and the
Produce Flame* cantrip.

Wax Enchantments
When you choose this archetype at 3rd
level, you learn wax enchantments, which are
fueled by your ability to pull and manipulate magic
from the Spirit Realm. These are represented by a
number of wick points.
Enchantments. You learn three enchantments
of your choice, which are detailed under
“Enchantments” below.
You learn two additional enchantments of your
choice at 5th, 10th, and 15th level. Each time you
learn new enchantments, you can also replace one
enchantment you know with a different one.

145

Enchantments
The enchantments are presented in alphabetical order.
Blooming Light. As an action, you can spend 1 wick point
to ignite a dark green candle, which burns in a similar hue,
shedding dim light in a 10-foot radius centered on itself.
Creatures in the candle’s light are hidden from divination
magic, and they can’t be targeted by such magic or perceived
through magical scrying sensors. This effect lasts for 1 hour.
Bocha Glue Wax. Bocha glue is a delicate mixture of the
finest waxes available and a collection of ingredients known
only to the Waxwork Rogues. When enchanted properly, it
can temporarily hold any two objects together. As an action,
you can spend 1 wick point to create an adhesive bond
between two objects using just a small amount of bocha
glue. The two objects remain bound together for 24 hours,
at which point the enchantment fades and the two objects
are separated. A creature within reach of the objects can use
an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your
Enchantment save DC, breaking the bond early on a success.
Burning Delay (5th Level Required). You can spend 3 additional wick points to simultaneously activate Burning Delay
when you use one of the following candle enchantments:
candle pop, fish fat candle, or detonate. When you do so, you
delay that enchantment’s activation by 1 round, 1 minute, or
10 minutes (your choice).
Candle Pop. As a bonus action, you can spend 2 wick points
to ignite and hurl a misshapen yellow candle at a creature
you can see within 60 feet of you. The target must make a
Dexterity saving throw to avoid being partially encased in
wax as the candle explodes on impact. On a failed save, the
target is restrained by the wax. At the end of each of its
turns, a restrained target can repeat the saving throw, ending
the effect on itself on a success.
Consuming Flame (10th Level Required). When you see a
hostile creature within 60 feet of you casting a spell, you can
use your reaction and spend 3 wick points to quickly ignite
the flame of a thin white candle and cast Counterspell*. If
the spell was successfully countered and was 3rd level or
lower, you can spend an additional 2 wick points to reactivate this ability and store the spell inside your candle.
While holding the candle, you can cast any spell stored
in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell attack
modifier, and spellcasting ability of the original caster, but is
otherwise treated as if you cast the spell. Once the spell has
been cast, the candle is sundered and becomes unusable. A
spell can be stored inside a candle for 24 hours, after which
the spell fades and is no longer able to be used.
Delicacy. As an action, you can spend 1 wick point to imbue
the tart flavor of a Pyramid Melon and the healing properties of a river spirit into your candle. As a bonus action,
a creature can consume the candle, causing it to regain 1d6
hit points and providing enough nourishment to sustain it

146

for one day. A candle holds this enchantment for 24 hours,
after which the properties of delicacy fade. You can have no
more than 2 candles with this enchantment at a time.
Detonate. (5th Level Required) As an action, you can spend
3 wick points to ignite and throw a dark black candle at a
point you can see within 60 feet of you. A brilliant eruption
of flame sweeps out from the candle, causing each creature
in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point to make
a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 2d6 fire damage
and 2d8 thunder damage on a failed save, or half as
much damage on a successful one. When you use this
enchantment, you can spend additional wick points to
increase the fire damage dealt by 1d6 for each additional
wick point spent.
The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable
objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried.
Fish Fat Candle. As an action, you can spend 1 wick point
to ignite and throw an oily brick of blubber candle wax that
lands in an unoccupied space you can see on the ground
within 60 feet of you. One round after the candle lands,
it emits a cloud of colorful smoke that creates a heavily
obscured area in a 20-foot radius centered on it. The candle
continues to spew smoke for 1 minute and creates a visible
trail in the sky that can be seen from 10 miles away.
Flooding Abundance. As an action, you can spend 2 wick
points to ignite and throw a tea light candle into an unoccupied space you can see on the ground within 60 feet of
you. After landing, the candle melts rapidly, bubbling and
boiling with an overwhelming amount of wax, which flows
over and fills a 15-foot-square centered on the candle. The
wax remains for 1 minute. It is flammable, and a 5-foot
square of wax exposed to fire burns away in 3 rounds, dealing 2d6 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in
the fire. All spaces covered in the wax are difficult terrain
for the duration.
Iron Seal. As an action, you can spend 1 wick point to melt
and press the wax seal of iron onto any door or object with
a lid. Once imbued with your seal, the object becomes magically shut and can’t be opened unless a creature makes a
successful Strength (Athletics) check against your Enchantment save DC, at which point the seal breaks. The iron seal
lasts until it is broken or dispelled (as if it were a 1st-level
spell). You can use an action to touch one of your iron seals
and end its effects early.
Lost Wax Carving. Using the lost form of wax carving you
craft a detailed replica of an object. When using the wax
carving technique, you can spend 2 wick points over the
course of 10 minutes to produce the effects of the Duplicate
spell. The object you duplicate can be no larger than a
1-foot cube.
Maker’s Mark. When you make an attack with a
one-handed weapon as part of the Attack action on your
turn, you can spend 1 wick point to make an unarmed strike

as part of the same action using a signet ring. This attack
deals bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 + your Dexterity
modifier, plus an extra 1d6 fire damage. This attack can
benefit from your Sneak Attack, provided you haven’t
already dealt your Sneak Attack damage this turn.
You can use this enchantment once per turn.
Shielding Seal. As an action, you can spend 1 wick point
to melt and press the wax seal of shielding onto a willing
creature or object, protecting it from incoming damage. The
target of the seal gains 5 temporary hit points, which last
for 24 hours. You can grant an additional 5 temporary hit
points for each additional wick point spent, to a maximum
of 15 temporary hit points. You can only have one shielding
seal active at a time. Creating a shielding seal while another
seal of the same type is already active ends the effects of
the initial seal early.
Spark Shower. As a bonus action, you can spend 2 wick
points to bring your free hand to your mouth, igniting your
next breath. Exhaling creates a dazzling shower of sparks
aimed toward a creature within 5 feet of you. You have
advantage on the next weapon attack roll you make against
the target this turn, and the target can’t make opportunity
attacks until the end of your turn.
Waxlings. By reaching through the veil and into the Spirit
Realm, you can temporarily pull and trap a minor spirit
within a candle, granting the candle sentience. As an action,
you can spend 2 wick points to summon a waxling, casting
the Find Familiar* spell with the following changes:
◊ In place of an animal familiar, you instead imbue life into
a candle, which causes it to grow appendages and eyes.
◊ Your waxling familiar uses the statistics of a rat.
◊ You can command the familiar to use its action to touch
a flammable object that isn’t being worn or carried and
ignite it.
◊ The familiar sheds bright light in a 5-foot radius and dim
light for an additional 10 feet.
◊ You can’t temporarily dismiss the familiar.
◊ The familiar is dismissed permanently after 1 hour or
when it is reduced to 0 hit points.
◊ You can have more than one of these familiars at a time.
Wick Whip. As a bonus action, you can spend 3 wick points
to ignite a 10-foot length of candlewick that has been soaking in the stomach acid of a dragon frog. The flames burn at
an intense heat that warps the air around them, shedding
bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. The wick burns for 1 minute, during which
you can use it as a melee weapon that you're considered
proficient with. It deals 3d4 fire damage on a hit (adding
your ability modifier to the damage roll as normal), and it
has the finesse, light, and reach properties.

Burn Cycle
Starting at 9th level, you can ignite your weapons in a flash
of hot white flames when you successfully catch an enemy
off guard. When you deal Sneak Attack damage on your
turn, you can spend wick points to deal extra fire damage
to the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. The extra
damage is 1d6 for each wick point spent, to a maximum
of 4d6.

Advanced Enchantments
When you reach 13th level, some of your enchantments
become more potent. You now use the alternate enchantments features found below. If you have yet to learn any of
the following enchantments, you may learn one as part of
this feature.
Blooming Light. Starting at 13th level, the effects of blooming light lasts for 8 hours.
Burning Delay. Starting at 13th level, you can delay the
effects of your candle enchantments by 1 round, 3 rounds, 1
minute, 10 minutes, or 1 hour.
Candle Pop. Starting at 13th level, candle pop affects the
target and each creature within 5 feet of it.
Delicacy. Starting at 13th level, the creature regains 1d12
hit points, instead of 1d6, and you can have up to 4 candles
with this enchantment at a time.
Maker’s Mark. Starting at 13th level, maker’s mark has no
limit to the number of times you can use it per turn.
Shielding Seal. Starting at 13th level, you can have up to
three shielding seals active at a time, instead of one.
Waxlings. Starting at 13th level, you can spend 3 wicks
points as an action, instead of 2, to summon two
waxlings simultaneously.

Spirit Flame
At 17th level, you learn to craft a specialty candle made of
pink wax. As a bonus action, you can ignite this candle,
which burns for 1 minute. As long as the burning candle is
on your person, you gain the following benefits:
◊ The wick point cost of your enchantments is reduced
by 1.
◊ You have immunity to fire damage.
◊ Spirits have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
If you fall prone while the burning candle is on your
person, you must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw
or the candle is extinguished early.
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.

147

Oni Bloodline
Sorcerer

In the realm of magic, there exists a lineage of sorcerers
whose blood bears an ancient connection to the oni. These
sorcerers, known as Oni Kin, harness the magic of their
lineage to weave powerful spells. But, as they delve deeper
into their arcane abilities, they find themselves gradually
transforming, both physically and spiritually, into embodiments of the oni’s fearsome might.
At the onset of their journey and as they use their powers,
Oni Kin begin to see subtle manifestations of their lineage’s
traits—changes in appearance and temperament. However, as
they channel their magic with more skill, these traits begin
to intensify. Their skin may change, their eyes may glow with
an eerie light, and their once-subtle features become more
pronounced, bearing the unmistakable visage of an oni.
As their power reaches its zenith, Oni Kin reach a pinnacle where they can fully embrace their heritage and assume
the form of a true oni. In this form, they stand as towering
figures of terror, wielding unparalleled magical might and
physical prowess. Yet, with this transformation comes a
perilous temptation—the struggle to maintain control over
the oni ’s insatiable hunger for chaos and destruction. This
struggle is not unnoticed by islanders, most of which fear or
distrust the Oni Kin.

Arcane Prison
Trapped inside of you is the essence of the First Oni, passed
down through its children and stretched across a long and
treacherous lineage. As you grow in strength, so does the
spirit within you. It desperately wishes to bubble to the
surface, and it does so when you’re at your weakest. At 1st
level, you gain the traits of the oni, which manifest as you
expend sorcery points. Each oni trait becomes available to
you based on how many sorcery points you’re missing from
your total, represented by the table below. Regaining sorcery
points can cause you to lose one or more oni traits.
Each oni trait has both a physical and an arcane manifestation, which lasts until you finish a long rest.

Sorcery Points Missing

Manifestation

0–1

Eyes

2–4

Horns

5–9

Skin

10–14

Tongue

15 or more

Hair

148

Oni Traits
Eyes. Your eyes shimmer with an almost mesmerizing
quality. As an action, you can activate your innate ocular
charm. For 1 minute, you have advantage on all Charisma
checks directed at one creature of your choice that isn’t
hostile toward you, provided it can see your eyes. When the
effect ends, the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw
against your spell save DC. On a success, the target realizes
that you used magic to influence its mood and becomes
hostile toward you. A creature prone to violence might
attack you. Another creature might seek retribution in other
ways (at the GM’s discretion), depending on the nature of
your interaction with it.
Horns. You gain horns which rapidly grow and jut out from
your head. When casting a cantrip that requires you to
make a melee or ranged spell attack, you can instead make
a melee spell attack using your horns, channeling the spell
through them. When you hit a creature with a cantrip cast
in this way, the target takes an extra 1d6 piercing damage.

Additionally, when a hostile creature’s movement
provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can use your
reaction to cast a cantrip at the creature using your horns
rather than making an opportunity attack. The spell
must have a casting time of 1 action and must target only
that creature.
Skin. The hue of your skin turns to a dull red, green, or blue
color and you adopt the regenerative powers of the oni.
Whenever you cast a spell of 1st level or higher, you regain
a number of hit points equal to the spell’s level + your
Constitution modifier. You don’t gain this benefit if you
activate the Tongue trait for that casting.
Tongue. With every incantation cast, the twisted and
demonic voice of the First Oni can be heard within your
speech. When you cast a spell that requires a verbal component and targets a single creature, you can also use your
bonus action to cause the target to recoil in fear. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save
DC. On a failed save, the target must use its reaction, if
available, to move up to half its speed away from you or fall
prone (your choice).
Hair. Your hair turns a shocking white and stretches
towards the ground as it grows to cover your back. You gain
a +2 bonus to your AC.

Ogre Manipulation
Starting at 6th level, you can manifest one of your oni traits,
regardless of how many sorcery points you’re missing. As a
bonus action, you can gain one of the oni traits you could
normally obtain through the expenditure of sorcery points
and draw it out early. This trait lasts for 1 minute, and you
lose it if you haven’t gained the trait by normal means in
that time.
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you
finish a long rest.

Boiling Power
At 14th level, your oni traits grow in strength. The following
changes apply to your traits:
Eyes. In addition to the benefits you normally have, you
learn the Zone of Truth* spell, which you can cast without
expending a spell slot. When you cast it, only one creature
of your choice within 60 feet of you is affected by the spell.
The target must make its saving throw against the spell
at the start of each of its turns, provided it can see your
eyes; the spell ends early if the target can no longer see
your eyes.
Horns. The extra damage dealt by your horns increases
to 1d12.
Skin. Whenever you cast a spell of 1st level or higher, you
now regain a number of hit points equal to twice the spell’s
level + your Constitution modifier.
Tongue. When you activate the Tongue trait using a spell
slot of 5th level or higher, in place of the trait’s normal
effects, you can instead cause the target to tremble in
fear, becoming hyper fixated on you. The target’s passive
Wisdom (Perception) score is reduced to 5 and it takes a −5
penalty to its AC against all attacks that aren’t made by you.
This effect lasts until the start of your next turn.

Transformation
Beginning at 18th level, you can fully embody the fabled
visage of your demon ancestor without needing to exhaust
your sorcerous power. As an action, you can instantly manifest all of your oni traits, regardless of how many sorcery
points you’re missing. While manifesting your oni traits in
this way, you gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks, and you can’t be
charmed or frightened.
This effect lasts for 1 minute, after which you lose any trait
you haven’t gained by normal means in that time. Once you
use this feature, you can’t do so again until you finish a long
rest, unless you spend 5 sorcery points to use it again.

149

The Lantern

Spells

Warlock

Warlocks who make a pact with a powerful spirit are able
to tap into the magic that flows through the Spirit Realm.
These warlocks are known by the special lanterns they
carry—lanterns that burn with the essence of their patron.
The illumination of this vessel carries with it the attributes
of the spirit, granting the warlock an array of abilities.
When spirits enter pacts with people, there is often more
to it than generosity. Spirits powerful enough to lend out
bits of their magic do so for a variety of reasons. Perhaps
the spirit is beholden to do so due to a bargain or curse. It
could be that the spirit needs allies (though they might not
readily admit it). Or maybe they simply see something in
you that amuses them. The things that motivate spirits are
as varied as they are. And truly powerful spirits can
be inscrutable.

1st

Faerie Fire*, Identify*

2nd

Locate Object*, Swallow Magic

3rd

Daylight*, Nondetection*

4th

Guardian of Faith*, Locate Creature*

5th

Create Spirit Train Stop, Tamh Gon’s Fiery
Festival Feast

Illuminating Aura
Starting at 1st level, the essence of your spirit patron is
channeled into a lantern, where it appears as a minor form
of itself. You can use your lantern as a spellcasting focus for
your warlock spells.
As a bonus action, you can activate your lantern, causing
it to shed bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for
an additional 20 feet. This light lasts for 1 minute, or until
you let go of the lantern or choose to end this effect
early (no action required). For the duration, you gain the
following benefits:
◊ Whenever you see a creature in your lantern’s bright light
make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to grant
that creature a bonus to the save equal to your Charisma
modifier (minimum of +1).
◊ Whenever a hostile creature within your lantern’s dim
light fails a saving throw, it takes radiant damage equal to
half your warlock level (rounded up).
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you
finish a short or long rest.

Revealing Light
Starting at 1st level, you can use an action to cause your
lantern to illuminate with a vibrant maroon light, which
sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an
additional 10 feet. Invisible creatures and objects are visible
as long as they are in the lantern’s bright light. The lantern
sheds light in this manner for 1 hour or until you snuff it
out early as a bonus action.
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you
finish a short or long rest.

150

Dangerous Tool

Brighter Still

Starting at 6th level, your Illuminating Aura no longer ends
if you let go of your lantern. While you aren’t holding your
lantern, you can magically take control of it for 1 minute (no
action required), using it as if it were a Spiritual Weapon*
cast as a 2nd-level spell. Your lantern continues to act
as your spellcasting focus while using this feature, even
though you are no longer holding the lantern.

At 14th level, you gain the ability to activate your lantern’s
Illuminating Aura at will. Features such as Dangerous Tool
and Brilliant Illumination that work in conjunction with
Illuminating Aura are still limited to the number of uses
described in their respective features.

The level at which Spiritual Weapon* is cast increases
when you reach certain levels in this class, increasing to
a 4th-level spell at 10th level and a 6th-level spell at
15th level.

Additionally, while holding your lantern, you can use an
action to cause it to illuminate with a pale blue light, revealing a glowing arcane path to a location you’re familiar with,
as if casting the Find the Path* spell.
Once you use your lantern in this way, you can’t do so
again until you finish a long rest.

Once you take control of your lantern in this way, you
can’t do so again until you finish a long rest, unless you
expend a warlock spell slot to take control of it again.

Oracle Illumination
Beginning at 6th level, you can spend an action to magically connect your mind to a light source such as a candle
or torch that you can see or are familiar with. The light
source acts as if it were the sensor created by the Clairvoyance* spell, granting you the same benefits. You can use the
light source in this way for 10 minutes or until you use this
feature again.
Once you use this feature on a light source, you can’t use
it on the same light source again until you finish a long rest.

Brilliant Illumination
Starting at 10th level, while your lantern’s Illuminating
Aura is active you can use an action to cause the light to
flare with an overwhelmingly brilliant flash. Each creature
other than you illuminated by either your lantern’s bright
light or dim light (your choice) must make a Constitution
saving throw against your warlock spell save DC. On a failed
save, a creature takes radiant damage equal to 2d8 + your
warlock level and is blinded until the end of your next
turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much
damage and isn’t blinded.
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you
finish a short or long rest.

151

Origami Mage
Wizard

Origami Mages are wielders of a unique form of magic that
combines precision, creativity, and imagination. With a flick
of their wrist and a whisper of arcane words, they transform
simple sheets of paper into awe-inspiring manifestations of
elemental forces, mystical beings, and fantastical creatures.
Drawing inspiration from the mysterious elegance of
origami, these mages are not bound by traditional spell
components but instead rely on the meticulous manipulation of paper to channel their magical energies. Origami
magic is not without its challenges. Mastery of this arcane
discipline demands patience, dexterity, and a keen eye for
detail. Each fold must be precise, each crease exact, for even
the smallest imperfection can disrupt the flow of magic and
render a spell ineffective. Yet, for those who persevere, the
rewards are boundless.

An Arcane Art
At 2nd level, you learn to weave magic into origami, allowing you to create magnificent moving art pieces, which act
on your behalf. As a bonus action, you can fold and imbue
life into a paper construct that takes a form you choose
from the list below. When crafted, an origami construct
becomes bound to you or another creature of your choice
that you can see within 60 feet of you.
A creature with a bound origami construct gains the
unique effects and features listed for that construct. A
creature can’t have more than one of the same origami
construct bound to it at a time, unless stated otherwise.
A bound construct occupies the same space as the creature
it’s bound to.
These constructs stay imbued with life for a number of
hours equal to half your wizard level. Origami constructs
have an AC equal to your spell save DC, are immune to
poison and psychic damage, and are destroyed when they
take any damage. You can use this feature to create an
origami construct a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you
finish a long rest.

Origami Constructs
The constructs are presented in alphabetical order.
Bird. While the origami bird is bound to your person, you
gain proficiency in the Perception skill. Additionally, you
deal an additional 2 slashing damage whenever you hit a
target with a ranged attack.
Cat. While the origami cat is bound to your person, you
gain proficiency in the Stealth skill. Additionally, once
on each of your turns when you hit a target with a melee
weapon attack, the origami cat can make a melee spell
attack against the same target. Its attack modifier is equal to
your weapon attack modifier, and on a hit, the target takes
1d6 slashing damage.
The origami cat’s damage increases when you reach
certain levels in this class: 1d8 at 5th level, 1d10 at 11th
level, and 1d12 at 17th level.
Crab. While the origami crab is bound to your person, you
gain a +1 bonus to your AC and proficiency in the Athletics skill. If the wizard that crafted this origami crab creates
another, this origami crab is destroyed.
Dragon. While the origami dragon is bound to your person,
you have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks and
can’t benefit from being invisible. Additionally, you take 1d4
fire damage at the start of each of your turns. You can have
multiple origami dragons bound to you at the same time.
When the construct is destroyed, it quickly pops in an
audible explosion, dealing 2d6 fire damage to each creature
within 5 feet of it.

152

Frog. While the origami frog is bound to your person, you
gain proficiency in the Acrobatics skill. As a reaction, when
you would fail a Dexterity saving throw, you can add a
bonus to the roll equal to the spellcasting ability modifier
of the wizard that crafted the construct; using this feature
destroys the origami frog.

Origami Familiar

Origami Servant
Beginning at 10th level, you learn the Unseen Servant*
spell; you always have it prepared, and it doesn’t count
against the number of spells you can prepare each day. In
addition, you can cast it without expending a spell slot, but
the maximum number of servants you can have at a time is
equal to half your wizard level (rounded up). When you cast
it, it has the following changes:

At 2nd level, you learn the Find Familiar* spell; you always
have it prepared, and it doesn’t count against the number of
spells you can prepare each day. Your familiar appears as an
origami version of itself, is immune to poison and psychic
damage, and is a construct, instead of a celestial, fey, or
fiend. In addition to the familiar’s normal statistics, it also
gains access to the following abilities.

◊ The spell lasts for a number of hours equal to your proficiency bonus, instead of 1 hour.

Camouflage. You can command your familiar to shift
into a flattened paper form. In this form the familiar
looks nearly indistinguishable from a normal piece
of paper. If a creature uses its action to examine the
familiar, it can discern the familiar for what it is with a
successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. The familiar can use an action to shift
back into its origami form.

◊ When you use your bonus action to command a servant,
you can issue a unique command to each servant you
have created as part of the same bonus action.

Last Resort. As an action, your origami familiar can
dive toward a creature, unfurling itself and wrapping
around the target’s face, as if a sheet of paper blown
by the wind. The target must make a Dexterity saving
throw against your spell save DC or become blinded for 1
minute. A creature blinded by the paper or one that can
touch the creature can use its action to make a Strength
check against your spell save DC. On a success, the
target is no longer blinded. When this effect ends, your
familiar is destroyed.

◊ As an action, while your servant is within 100 feet of you,
you can see through your servant’s eyes and hear what
it hears until the start of your next turn, gaining the
benefits of any special senses that the servant has.
During this time, you are deaf and blind with regard to
your own senses.

Reconnaissance. As an action, you can command your
familiar to spy. The origami familiar will then spend 1
minute listening to any and all sounds within 15 feet of
itself, recording what is overhears on its paper body. It
then returns to you and dispels its familiar form, leaving
behind a transcript of its findings written in a language
of your choice that you know.

◊ Your servant appears as a visible origami version of itself.
◊ Your servant is immune to poison and psychic damage.
◊ Your servant can move through a space as narrow as 1
inch wide without squeezing.

◊ Your servant falls at a rate of 60 feet per round and takes
no falling damage.
◊ Your servant can see invisible creatures and objects as if
they were visible.

Arcane Refresh
At 14th level, your origami constructs return the magic you
lent them when you imbued them with life whenever they
are destroyed. When one of your constructs is destroyed,
you can regain 10 hit points or regain a spell slot of 2nd
level or lower (your choice).
Additionally, when one of your constructs would take
damage, you can use your reaction to negate the damage
against it. Once you use this ability, you can’t do so again
until you finish a long rest.

Binding Release
Starting at 6th level, you can use a bonus action to move
one of your origami constructs to a creature that you can
see within 30 feet of it.

Paper Path
Also at 6th level, when you cast a spell with a range of
touch, your origami construct can deliver the spell as if it
had cast the spell. Your construct must be within 100 feet of
you. If the spell requires an attack roll, you use your attack
modifier for the roll.

153

BACKGROUNDS
This section describes backgrounds that are unique to Obojima. Many of them are associated with one of the factions
outlined on page 17. Feel free to use the ones found in the Player’s Handbook, and consider how they might fit into
the setting.

Apprentice of
AHA
You spent time studying
with the archaeologists,
historians, and archivists of
AHA, the group of adventuring academics who
seek knowledge about the
nature of Obojima and its past. With your mentor, you
pursued answers to one of the island’s mysteries. During
your apprenticeship, you traveled to one or more of AHA’s
excavation sites and worked alongside the organization, but
never became an official member. Even now, unanswered
questions from your time with the group continue to rattle
around in your mind. For more on AHA, see page 17.
Skill Proficiencies: History, Investigation
Tool Proficiencies: You gain proficiency in an Artisan’s
Tool of your choice.
Equipment: An Explorer’s Pack, 5 candles, shovel, signal
whistle, a journal full of old research from your time as an
apprentice, and 13 gold flowers.

FEATURE: WISE REPUTATION
Due to your time spent in the field you’ve met or are familiar with many of the intellectuals and creative minds in
Obojima’s villages.

Apprentice Diver
You are or once were a
member of the Mariners’
Guild, an intrepid group of
aquatic explorers and mariners. Working as an apprentice
diver in the lodge you have
learned much about the Shallows—you know what is dangerous and what is delicious.
You have climbed the cliffs around the island, explored
many beaches, and learned how to use the gear needed to
survive under the waves. For more on the Mariners’ Guild,
see page 17.
Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Nature
Tool Proficiencies: Divers Armor
Equipment: An Explorer’s Pack, a chest, grappling hook,

154

fishing tackle, a faction coin marking which lodge you
trained under, and 11 gold flowers.

FEATURE: ONCE A MEMBER ALWAYS
A MEMBER
When visiting either of the Coastal Diver’s Lodges, you
always have free room and board. Additionally, the lodge
will assist you in your endeavors as best they can.

Apprentice
Witch
The ways of witchery
are mysterious and often
guarded by its practitioners.
Whether you sought it
out or a witch recognized something in you, you came to
apprentice for a witch or coven. Under their tutelage, you
were introduced to Obojima’s folk magic tradition, where
you learned the rudiments of potions and other magical
preparations. Although you may have trained under one for
some time, you never officially joined one of the covens and
are considered a witch without a crest. For more on witch
covens, see page 19.
Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Survival
Tool Proficiencies: Alchemist’s supplies
Equipment: Alchemist's supplies, 9 common ingredients
(which you know the attributes for), a hat or robe from your
time as an apprentice, and 9 gold flowers.

FEATURE: SIBLING STUDENT
You have a close and trustworthy friend who studied under
the same witch as you and has now made it into one of the
six main covens. When needed, they act as your liaison to
the coven or covens they’re connected to.
If a player chooses an apprentice background
for their character, it doesn’t mean they are full
members of that faction. An apprentice witch,
for example, learned under a witch for a time,
but it doesn’t mean that character was inducted
into a coven yet. It does mean that the apprentice
had a mentor, though. Work with that player to
figure out who their character’s mentor or mentors were, and determine what that character’s
current level of involvement is with that faction.

Courier
Brigade Cadet

Spirit Kin

Skill Proficiencies: Stealth, Survival

Though everyone living on
Obojima comes in contact
with spirits to one degree
or another, your interaction with the Spirit Realm
has always occurred with
peculiar regularity. All
your life you’ve had a special kinship with spirits that few
share in. You’ve come to love their food, their culture, and
their people more than the average material being. These
habits have drawn fascination, suspicion, and confusion
from locals, but that doesn’t stop them from enlisting your
talents when spirit stuff gets weird.

Tool Proficiencies: Cobbler’s tools

Skill Proficiencies: Mechanics, Persuasion

Equipment: An Explorer’s Pack, cobbler’s tools, climber's kit, hooded lantern, lock, an old uniform issued by the
courier brigade, and 11 gold flowers.

Languages: Torum

You were a cadet with the
noble Courier Brigade, where
you trained at arms, learned
to traverse the landscape
quickly and quietly, and
practiced the hallowed task of properly delivering a package.
The couriers’ code—“Deliverance through delivery”—taught
you that your purpose is to be of service to others, and that
one of the highest virtues is seeing things through to the
end. For more on the Courier Brigade, see page 17.

FEATURE: POCKET MAP
You have an old worn out pocket map of the island from
your time as a cadet. The map is inscribed with a handful of
paths known only to the Courier Brigade.

Mechanic
You’ve spent most of your
life working on mechanisms
and machines. For you,
understanding both new
and old technology requires a more hands on approach.
Through trial and error, you have learned to create, repair,
and modify all things mechanical and electronic, and you
have honed your eye to recognize useful parts among
the scattered bits of technology that are found throughout
the island.

Equipment: A bedroll, 10 candles, two different common
ingredients (linked to your spirit allies), a special item gifted
to you by a spirit, and 10 gold flowers.

FEATURE: CONNECTIONS BEYOND
MATERIAL
You have come to know two spirits by name, and through
your relationship have learned special rituals and techniques that allow you to find them across the Physical and
Spirit Realms.
By using two unique ingredients that you choose when
taking this background, you can contact these spirits from
any distance or plane of existence. The ritual you enact to
utilize these ingredients and contact a spirit is uniquely
your own—it might involve a tea ceremony, or perhaps the
burning of the ingredients and partaking in the aromatic
smoke they produce.

Skill Proficiencies: Mechanics, Salvage
Tool Proficiencies: You gain proficiency in three Artisan’s
Tools of your choice.
Equipment: An abacus, ball bearings (1000), block and
tackle, flask of oil, an unfinished mechanical trinket, and 15
gold flowers.

FEATURE: MACHINE WHISPERER
You have a knack for machines and can tell what state one
is in by spending a few minutes with it. Machines that
have been sundered are unusable and should be scrapped
for parts. Machines in disrepair could potentially function
again if someone fixed them up, and functioning machines
do just that. Function!

155

LANGUAGES
The languages spoken on Obojima all sound different because each language has its own mysterious origin. The croaking
language of the Nakudama is very different from the whispered language of the spirits. There are various dialects that
have developed among the human villages around the island that sound similar having had a common ancestry, but the
language of humans and elves compared to that of the dara or the Nakudama are as different as night and day.
Over time, Obojimans have developed their own common tongue which allows everyone to converse, trade, tell tales,
and poke fun at one another.

TORUM (SPIRIT LANGUAGE)

ARCHAIC FIRST AGE LANGUAGES

NAKU NAKU (NAKUDAMA)

COMMON

EQUIPMENT
Obojimans are known for their ability to find a use for everything and the island has all kinds of odd tools and contraptions from every era of its long and mysterious history. Thus, when an adventurer goes to outfit themselves for their
journey, there might be all kinds of interesting tools, weapons, and exotic merchandise for them to peruse before choosing
what equipment will best suit the needs of their quest.

Armor
Bark Armor. While wearing bark armor, you gain advantage on stealth checks made in wooded areas.
Divers Armor. While wearing divers armor your movement is reduced by 10, unless your Strength score is equal
to or greater than 18. Additionally, whenever the spell
Water Breathing* is cast on you while wearing the divers
armor, the duration of the spell is doubled for you.

DIVERS
ARMOR

Pot Lid. When taking the attack action with a finesse or
light melee weapon that you’re holding in one hand, you
can use a bonus action to attack with a pot lid that you’re
holding in the other hand. On a hit, the pot lid deals 1d4
bludgeoning damage. You don’t add your ability modifier to
the damage of the bonus attack, unless that modifier
is negative.

Armor Name

Cost

Armor Class

Strength

8 gp

11 + Dex Modifier

-

60 gp

15 + Dex Modifier (Max 1)

2,000 gp

1 gp

Stealth

Weight

Special

-

14 lb.

Special

-

-

22 lb.

-

17

Str 16

Disadvantage

100 lb.

Special

+1

-

-

2 lb.

Special

Light Armor
Bark Armor
Medium Armor
Scumweed Armor
Heavy Armor
Divers Armor
Shield
Pot Lid

157

Shield Mechanics
This optional rule allows shield bearers to sacrifice their shield in order to reduce damage from
an incoming attack. In this rule system, non-magical shields have their own set of hit points,
which you can use in place of yours when the moment calls for it. When a creature wielding a
shield is hit by an attack, it can use its reaction to direct damage from the incoming attack to
the shield’s pool of hit points, instead of taking the damage itself. If the shield is reduced to
0 hit points, it is broken, and any excess damage is dealt to the creature wielding the shield
as normal. A broken shield gives no bonus to the shield bearer’s AC.
POT LID

A shield’s durability is based on the material it’s made of.
Below is a list of example shields.

Shield Durability Table

Shield Repair

Wooden shield

5 HP

If a shield takes damage or is broken, it can be repaired at
any armorsmith at a cost of 1 gold petal for each hit point
recovered.

Metal shield

10 HP

Well-crafted wooden shield

10 HP

Well-crafted metal shield

20 HP

When a shield is damaged in this way, it is
unable to be repaired by the tools available to an
adventurer on the road such as their travelers
artisan’s tools, or the Mending* spell. Instead, to
return the shield to its original condition it must
be taken to a shop and repaired by a craftsman.

Weapons
Simple Melee Weapons
Name

Cost

Damage

Weight

Properties

Boat Oar

8 sp

1d10 bludgeoning

8 lbs

Two-handed

Boomerang

2 gp

1d6 slashing

1 lbs

Finesse, thrown (60/180 ft.),
special

Butterfly Staff

4 cb

1d4 bludgeoning

1 lbs

Finesse, versatile (1d6), special

Fan

2 cb

1d4 slashing

1/4 lbs

Finesse, light, special

Frying Pan

3 sp

1d6 bludgeoning

6 lbs

Versatile (1d8), special

Iron Tea Kettle

1 sp

2d4 bludgeoning

2 lbs

Shovel

3 sp

1d6 bludgeoning or slashing
(you choose)

4 lbs

Versatile (1d8)

Umbrella

5 sp

1d4 bludgeoning

2 lbs

Finesse, special

158

Martial Melee Weapons
Name

Cost

Damage

Weight

Properties

Bellow Flute

1 gp

1d6 bludgeoning

1/2 lbs

Finesse

Candlemaker’s Club

7 sp

2d6 bludgeoning

10 lbs

Heavy, two-handed, special

Dandelion Spear

5 gp

1d8 piercing

6 lbs

Heavy, reach, versatile (1d10)

Drive Shaft

100 gp

3d4 bludgeoning

20 lbs

Heavy, two-handed

Lom Lom Dagger

15 gp

1d6 slashing

1 lbs

Finesse, light, thrown (20/60 ft.)

Secret Stone Sword

30 gp

1d6 bludgeoning

1 lbs

Light, versatile (1d8)

Shepherd Crook

7 sp

1d6 bludgeoning

4 lbs

Reach, special

Tapper Sack

1 gp

1d6 bludgeoning

5 lbs

Reach, versatile (1d8)

Vertebrae Sword

6 sp

1d8 piercing

1 lbs

Special

Vaulter’s Axe

5 gp

1d10 slashing

15 lbs

Heavy, reach, special, two-handed

Field Spear

2 gp

1d6 slashing

1 lbs

Finesse, thrown (30/90 ft.), versatile (1d8)

Martial Ranged Weapons
Name

Cost

Damage

Weight

Properties

Nakudama Bubble Rod

22 gp

2d4 bludgeoning

1 lbs

Ammunition (range 50/200 ft.)

Island Weapons
Weapons unique to Obojima are described here.
Bellow Flute. The traditional Obojiman instrument has
gotten a second life as a swift club-like weapon commonly
used by traveling performers. It is crafted from a special
coral found all across the shallows, which naturally forms
with dozens of tiny holes that run throughout the body of
the instrumental weapon. When swung it emits a beautiful
harmonic sound.
Dandelion Spear. This strange and intimidating weapon
was made for fishing in the reefs and crags of the Shallows.
Its long haft is tipped with a spherical array of thin sharp
barbs, which gave the spear its title, as its silhouette is
reminiscent of a blooming dandelion.

Field Spear. Also known as the merchant's blade, the field
spear was proven a useful and sturdy tool by the hundreds
of merchants and travelers that use it in their expeditions
across the island. Its shorter haft is roughly half the size of
a standard spear and its tip is more similar to a wide blade
or dagger than the traditional spear tip.
Lom Lom Dagger. The short and angular blade of a lom
lom dagger was designed for cleaving and quickly became a
staple in most of Obojima's kitchens. Over time, the blade
length grew longer and longer, and eventually the lom lom
dagger made its way out of the kitchen and into the hands
of adventurers, who favored it for its balance and accuracy
when thrown.

159

VERTEBRAE
SWORD

Nakudama
BUBBLE ROD

FRYING
PAN

FAN

UMBRELLA
SECRET
STONE SWORD

Nakudama Bubble Rod. The Nakudama bubble rod is
most recognizable by the curious sounds it produces when
used. The wet descending whistle of multiple water filled
glass marbles shot from the end of the oblong tube, quickly
followed by the unmistakable pop of the ammunition as
they hit their target.

While wielding a candlemaker’s club, you can use a bonus
action to extinguish a flame within 5 feet of you.

Secret Stone Sword. Although it's not much of a secret nowadays, the magical stone known as feather rock, which is used
to craft these stone swords, was once coveted and kept hidden
by the Nakudama. Even though feather rock is now commonly
used by potion brewers, and the craft of making one of these
swords is fairly common, the name has stayed the same.

Frying Pan. When wielding a frying pan, you can use
your bonus action to add a +1 bonus to your AC until the
end of your next turn. You can’t gain this benefit while
wielding a shield.

Tapper Sack. A tapper sack is a simple tool and weapon
used by farmers. At the end of a fine, yet sturdy, braided
cord is a simple bag which has been filled with sand.
Although it's not very flashy, in the hands of a skilled
adventurer this humble weapon packs quite a punch.

Special Weapons
Weapons with special rules are described here.
Boomerang. When thrown, the boomerang returns to an
unoccupied space adjacent to you. As a reaction, you can
choose to catch it.
Butterfly Staff. Although it can be used as a weapon, the
butterfly staff is more commonly used as a tool to catch small
spirits and critters. Its tall haft is capped with a well-woven
net, which is often made from sheep dragon wool.
When you make a grapple check while holding the butterfly staff, you can use the staff to target a Small or smaller
creature that is up to 10 feet away from you. When you do so,
you use your attack modifier for the weapon in place of your
Strength (Athletics) check. While grappling a creature in this
way, you can’t make another attack with the butterfly staff.
Candlemaker’s Club. These heavy honey dipper shaped
clubs are traditionally used for mixing the giant vats of
wax used by the Courier Brigade to seal packages and craft
candles. They’re now used by postal knights and adventurers as a useful defensive and offensive tool.

160

Fan. When you’re hit by a ranged weapon attack, you can
use your reaction to reduce the incoming damage of the
attack by a number equal to your Dexterity modifier.

Shepherd Crook. As a bonus action, you can make a
contested Strength check against a creature within range,
moving the target to another unoccupied space within 5
feet of you on a success.
Umbrella. Whenever you take falling damage while wielding an umbrella, you can use your reaction to reduce the
damage by a number equal to twice your proficiency bonus.
Vertebrae Sword. The jagged vertebrae sword of a fishfolk
warrior can barely be called a sword. Locals would say it’s
better described as a makeshift weapon crafted from a fish
skeleton and sea trash. Its poor construction is the reason
it's not often a weapon seen on land, though when used by
a skilled fighter, it most certainly can be a formidable tool.
When you successfully hit a creature with a vertebrae
sword, you can use a bonus action to rake and twist the
weapon, breaking off some of the sword's boney barbs and
dealing an extra 1d8 piercing damage. The vertebrae sword
can only be used in this way 5 times before it becomes
unusable as a weapon.
Vaulter’s Axe. The vaulter’s axe was designed by the Rangers
of the Greenward Path for exploring the Brackwater Wetlands.
Its tall haft allows wielders of the axe to easily check water
depths and vault over obstacles. To this day it's a useful tool
for anyone exploring the eastern side of the island.
As part of your movement, you can use the vaulter's axe to
launch yourself 15 feet over a creature or obstacle. Using your
movement in this way ignores nonmagical difficult terrain.

ADVENTURING GEAR
Below you’ll find an array of nonmagical objects and equipment commonly used by the islanders. This list includes
First Age technology, recreations of First Age technology, and new creations.

Arcane Detection Kit. Arcane Detection Kits (or ADKs)
have been popularized by witches in the last two decades
as the desire for potions from local islanders has gradually
increased. Although the contents of these kits vary depending on the coven and individual using them, there are a few
staples found in nearly every kit, such as spark powder and
arcana oil. No matter the contents, a skilled potion brewer
can use the kit to sniff out the latent magic found in objects
all across the island.
Bicycle. These First Age vehicles have become increasingly
popular over the years as recreations started being crafted
out of Yatamon. Both the recreations and the originals have
a speed of 60 feet while being ridden.
Sea Sink Boots. These weighted boots are used by the
Mariners’ Guild to quickly descend into the Shallows and
explore the shallow beds. While wearing the boots, all
nonmagical speeds you possess are reduced to 10 feet, you
descend into water at a rate of 100 feet per round, and you
can walk across the ocean floor as if you weren't buoyant.

Glider. A creature holding onto a glider with both hands
while falling, descends at a rate of 10 feet per round and
can travel up to 50 feet horizontally. A creature can use its
action to operate the glider, changing the direction they’re
moving and avoiding any obstacles in their path. If a creature is still in the air after 1 minute has passed, it must
succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw or let go of the
glider, falling as it normally would. This saving throw is
repeated every minute, with the DC increasing by 2 every
time the saving throw is made (to a maximum of DC 20).
Hook Sling. This heavy metal contraption can be used to
hurl a barbed hook at the surface of a solid object within
20 feet of you, latching onto it and pulling you toward
the target. The hook can be hurled using a bonus action,
and it requires an action to wind it back in before you can
use it again. You can hurl the hook using only one hand,
but it requires two hands to wind the hook back in. If the
targeted surface has no lip to grasp or is otherwise too
difficult for the barb to hook onto, the hook fails to latch
onto it and pull you.

161

FEATS
Feats are a way to customize and enhance your character without increasing ability scores—an option that your GM can
choose to include in your game. These feats are filled with flavor designed to make your character feel more a part of the
world of Obojima.

Boomerang Expert

Cloud Hopper

You have mastered the versatile boomerang and are capable
of performing extraordinary feats with the weapon. You gain
the following benefits:

Your exposure to the great wind spirit has changed you. You
gain the following benefits:

◊ The damage die for the boomerang is now a d8 for you.
◊ Attacking at long range doesn't impose disadvantage on
ranged attack rolls made with a boomerang.
◊ You automatically catch the boomerang after throwing it
without needing to use your reaction.

Bumbling Fool
You have a peculiar way of fumbling through life that somehow always works out in your favor, succeeding in situations
through what others might view as accidental luck. When
you fail an ability check and roll a number on the die equal
to half your level (rounded up) or lower, you can choose to
replace the die roll with a 15 instead. You can use this ability
three times, and you regain all expended uses when you
finish a long rest.

Canden and Moon’s Master Cut
Prerequisite: You must have beaten a master at Master Canden
and Moon’s Sword School
Having trained with the masters of the first sword school
of Obojima, you’ve picked up a handful of useful skills. You
gain the following benefits:
◊ Your walking speed increases by 5 feet.
◊ Immediately after rolling initiative, you can use your reaction before the first turn of combat to draw a weapon and
move up to half your speed (rounded up). If you end this
movement within reach of another creature, you can use
the weapon to make one melee attack against that creature.
◊ When you are hit by an attack, you can use a reaction to
assume a defensive stance, allowing you to fend off incoming strikes. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5
bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack. Once
you assume this stance, you can’t do so again until you
finish a long rest.

◊ When you move on your turn, you can choose to conjure
tiny clouds below your feet, allowing you to move into
unoccupied spaces in the air. You can move a number of
feet in this way equal to 5 × your proficiency bonus before
the clouds stop appearing. Ending this movement while
in the air causes you to fall as normal.
◊ You learn the Fog Cloud* and Gust of Wind* spells, each
of which you can cast once without expending a spell
slot. You regain the ability to cast these two spells in this
way when you finish a long rest. You can also cast the
spells using spell slots you have of the appropriate level.
Your spellcasting ability for this spell is Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma (your choice).

Coven Witch
Prerequisite: You must be a member of a witches coven
You have become an official member of a witches coven.
You gain the following benefits:
◊ Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by 1, to a
maximum of 20.
◊ You learn two random common and uncommon potion
recipes from your coven.
◊ You learn two 1st-level spells of your choice. The 1st-level
spells must be from the divination, conjuration, or transmutation school of magic. You can cast each of these
spells once without expending a spell slot. You regain
the ability to cast these two spells in this way when you
finish a long rest. You can also cast these spells using
spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The spells’
spellcasting ability is the ability increased by this feat.

Forager
You’ve spent countless hours exploring the island searching
for ingredients. You gain the following benefits:
◊ Increase your Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
◊ You gain proficiency in the Survival skill. If you already
have this proficiency, you instead gain expertise with that

162

skill, which means your proficiency bonus is doubled for
any ability check you make using it.

which means your proficiency bonus is doubled for any
ability check you make with it.

◊ You produce twice the number of common or uncommon
ingredients when foraging.

◊ When you succeed on a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check
to steal something, you can magically turn the object you
stole invisible as part of the same action, as if you had
cast the Obscure Object spell. The object must be small
enough to fit in the palm of your hand, and this effect
lasts for 1 minute. You can use this ability a number of
times per day equal to your proficiency bonus, and you
regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

Freediver
You have undergone extensive underwater training. You
gain the following benefits:
◊ Increase your Constitution score by 1, to a maximum
of 20.
◊ You gain a swimming speed equal to twice your Constitution score (rounded up to the nearest 5 feet). If you
already have a swimming speed, it instead increases by
10 feet.
◊ You triple your Constitution modifier when calculating
how long you can hold your breath.
◊ You gain resistance to cold damage.

Group Combatant
You’ve honed your fighting skills and are just as comfortable
fighting a group of enemies as you are facing a combatant
one on one. You gain the following benefits:
◊ Bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage that you take
from nonmagical attacks is reduced by 2, to a minimum
of 1.
◊ Creatures don’t gain advantage on attacks made against
you using the optional flanking rules.
◊ After you provoke an opportunity attack on your turn,
your movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks for
the rest of the turn.

Light Foot
You are exceptionally speedy and agile. You gain the following benefits:
◊ While you aren’t wearing heavy armor, you gain a +1
bonus to your AC.
◊ Whenever you take the Attack action, you can forgo one
of your attacks to move up to half your speed.
◊ Nonmagical difficult terrain costs you no
extra movement.
◊ You can move through a hostile creature's space, regardless of its size.

Magically Mischievous

Member of AHA
Prerequisite: You must be a member of AHA
You have become an official member of AHA. You gain the
following benefits:
◊ Increase your Intelligence score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
◊ You learn the Jolt cantrip. You also learn one of the
following spells of your choice: Comprehend Languages*,
Detect Magic*, Identify*, or Illusory Script*. You can
cast the chosen spell once without expending a spell slot,
and you must finish a long rest before you can cast it in
this way again. You can also cast the spell using any spell
slots you have. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for
these spells.

Minor Corruption
You were exposed to the Corruption, a dark magic that's
poisoning the island. It’s now begun to alter you as well.
You gain the following benefits:
◊ You gain a +1 bonus to AC while you have less than half
of your hit points remaining.
◊ You can draw upon the Corruption within you to channel
your magical power. You don’t need to use a spellcasting
focus for your spells, allowing you to ignore the material
components specified for the spell, unless the component
indicates a cost or is consumed by the spell.
◊ As a reaction, when you take damage, you can temporarily negate an amount of the damage equal to three times
your level; you take any excess damage as normal. At the
end of your next turn, you must make a Constitution
saving throw, the DC of which is equal to 10 or one-third
the damage you would have taken, whichever number
is higher. On a failed save, you immediately take the
negated damage. You must continue to make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of your turns for 1
minute or until you fail the save, at which point you take
the negated damage. Once you take this reaction, you
can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.

You’ve picked up a few magical tricks that assist your nefarious skills. You gain the following benefits:
◊ You gain proficiency in the Sleight of Hand skill. If you
already have proficiency, you gain expertise instead,

163

Nakudama’s Electric Bloodline

Potion Brewer

Prerequisite: You must be a Nakudama

Your expertise and understanding of magical potions and
elixirs allow you to finesse ingredients and recipes to your
specifications. You gain the following benefits:

Although it's uncommon in today's day and age, some
Nakudama are able to awaken the now dormant skills held
by their warring ancestors. You gain the following benefits:
◊ You have resistance to lightning damage.
◊ You have an electrified tongue that you can use to make
unarmed strikes. It has the finesse and reach properties, and when you hit with it, the strike deals lightning
damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength or Dexterity modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an
unarmed strike. The damage from your tongue increases
when you reach 5th level (1d8), 11th level (1d10), and 17th
level (1d12).
◊ When you become grappled by a creature, you can use
your reaction to force the creature to make a Constitution
saving throw (DC 8 + your Constitution modifier + your
proficiency bonus). On a failed save, the creature takes
1d10 lightning damage and the grapple ends.

Nakudama’s Toxin Bloodline
Prerequisite: You must be a Nakudama
Although it's uncommon in today's day and age, some
Nakudama are able to awaken the now dormant skills held
by their warring ancestors. You gain the following benefits:
◊ You have resistance to poison damage.
◊ You have advantage on saving throws against
being poisoned.
◊ You can cause your cheeks to swell and bubble out as
your mouth fills with liquid poison. As an action, you can
spit several globs of poison in quick succession, targeting
a number of creatures equal to your proficiency bonus.
Each target must be within 30 feet of you and must make
a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + your Constitution
modifier + your proficiency bonus). A target takes poison
damage equal to 1d8 + your proficiency bonus on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

Postal Knight
Prerequisite: You must be a member of the Courier Brigade
You have trained as a member of the Courier Brigade. You
gain the following benefits:
◊ Increase your Constitution or Wisdom score by 1, to a
maximum of 20.
◊ You gain proficiency in the Athletics and Survival skills.
◊ Exhaustion doesn't cause you to have disadvantage on
ability checks.

164

◊ When brewing potions, you can choose to take the
second-highest ingredient attribute number from your
potion recipe, instead of the first.
◊ When brewing a potion, you can roll percentile dice. If
you roll a number equal to or lower than your level, you
create two potions instead of one.

Tellu and Scale’s Master Cut
Prerequisite: You must have beaten a master at Master Tellu and
Scale’s Sword School
Having trained with the masters of the valley sword school,
you have learned the usefulness of quickly changing
between different fighting techniques in the midst of battle.
You gain the following benefits:
◊ One Handed. While wielding a versatile weapon in one
hand, your quick movements and agile defense allow you
to regain ground even when your enemy advances. Once
before the start of your next turn when you’re missed
by a melee attack from a creature within your reach, the
attacker takes damage from your weapon equal to twice
your proficiency bonus.
◊ Two Handed. When wielding a versatile weapon in two
hands, your powerful stance allows you to catch your
target off guard. Whenever an enemy within your reach
makes a melee weapon attack against you and misses, you
can use your reaction to attempt to knock the attacker off
balance. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw (DC 8 + your Strength modifier + your proficiency
bonus) or be knocked prone.

Toraf and Bolder’s Master Cut
Prerequisite: You must have beaten a master at Master Toraf and
Bolder’s Sword School
Having trained with the masters of the mountain sword
school, you’ve learned how to pull off difficult weapon
maneuvers which allow you to target specific parts of a
creature's anatomy. You gain the following benefits:
◊ Head Strike. Before you make a melee attack with a
weapon that you are proficient with, you can choose to
take a −5 penalty to the attack roll. If the attack hits, the
target has disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes
before the end of its next turn.
◊ Torso Strike. Before you make a melee attack with a
weapon that you are proficient with, you can choose to
take a −5 penalty to the attack roll. If the attack hits, the
target can’t speak until the start of your next turn, after
which it is immune to the effects of Torso Strike for the
next minute.

◊ Leg Strike. Before you make a melee attack with a weapon
that you are proficient with, you can choose to take a −5
penalty to the attack roll. If the attack hits, the target's
speed is reduced by 10 feet (to a minimum speed of 10
feet). This effect lasts until the start of your next turn.

Once you have succeeded on this check three times, you
can’t use this benefit again until the next dawn.

You can only use one of these strikes per attack.

Your deep knowledge of the dangerous creatures that
inhabit the world aid you in both fighting and tracking
them. You gain the following benefits:

Vocalist Arcanist
Your unique method of weaving song into magic allows you
to enhance your spells through your magical vocals. When
you cast a spell that forces a target to make a saving throw
or requires you to make a spell attack roll, you can choose
to enhance the spell through song. You can wait until after
you roll the d20 before deciding to use this, but must decide
before the GM says whether the roll succeeds or fails.
When you do so, make a Charisma (Performance) check.
The DC for this check is equal to 10 + the spell’s level. On
a success, your proficiency bonus is doubled for the spell
attack roll or your save DC for that casting of the spell.

Wetland Explorer

◊ Select two creature types of your choice. Whenever you
roll initiative at the start of a combat that has one or
more hostile creatures of the chosen type, you can add
your proficiency bonus to the roll. If a creature has magically altered its form to appear as another creature type,
you don’t gain this benefit.
◊ You gain a +5 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) and Wisdom
(Survival) checks involving one or more of the chosen
creature types.
◊ You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls made against a target
of the chosen creature type.

SKILLS
Below you’ll find two skills which are new to D&D and specifically used on the island of Obojima by crafters and potion
brewers alike.

Mechanics

Salvage

Your Intelligence (Mechanic) check measures
your ability to comprehend, operate, craft, and
repair non-magical machines.

The GM might ask you to make an Intelligence
(Salvage) check to search for, disassemble, or
otherwise recall information about mechanical
parts that are useful for magical and non-magical machines or potions.

CONDITIONS
Below you’ll find a condition which is new to D&D and used by creatures and in spells found on the island of Obojima.

Pacify
A pacified creature can’t attack, cast a spell that affects an enemy, or deal damage to another creature.

165

I

MAGIC ITEMS

n the world of Obojima, magic items are abundant and diverse, each possessing unique powers and abilities which are
sought after by a wide variety of people from spirit merchants and ramen chefs, to witches and adventurers alike. Some
magic items are imbued with the essence of elemental forces, such as fire, water, wind, and earth. Others may be relics of
the First Age or gifts from elder spirits, each with its own mysterious origins and hidden potential. Whether it be a sword that
bursts into flames with every swing or a magic bicycle that grants its rider the ability to soar through the skies, these magic
items play a crucial role in shaping the fate of those who possess them on Obojima.

Mundane 